It is sound government to plan on the basis that the worst will happen. In fact, it is not often that the worst does happen. So we find ourselves better off for having made the maximum effort to meet maximum difficulties when less than the maximum troubles us.Any government that makes plans on the basis of tomorrow being a sunny day will soon find that it has led the people into dire difficulties. For if it rains, and no wet weather arrangements have been made, confusion and chaos must result.Economically we will continue to do well, but only if our workers and our unions accept the challenge that 1972 will be a very different world with many imponderables in matters of defence and security, and also the consequential repercussions when the world balance of power in East and Southeast Asia is profoundly altered.It is foolish to plan on any basis other than that only we may find it worthwhile to fight and die for our country and for our children’s future. The Australians and New Zealanders have already made it clear that they are not stepping into the role ofthe British. Theirs will be a subsidiary role. As the Australian prime minister put it, he will be a part of the posse, not the sheriff. It is only common sense that if and when the chips are down, we must be prepared to play sheriff in our own domain. Otherwise all that we have built up over 150 years will be destroyed or captured.The decisions which we made four years ago on the buildup of our defence forces might have appeared more than was necessary at that time. Many were grateful in May and June this year that we had made full use of the time. It could have been a very different situation had we wasted the past four years. So the two-and-a-half years between now and the end of 1971 must be used to the maximum.Our defence and security arrangements are necessary to ensure that economic growth can take place. And without economic growth, the defence costs will over- whelm and smother our economy.Singapore must continue to be clean and green, spruce and well-maintained. It is that air of general well-being, of trees and shrubs, flowers and creepers, no flies or mosquitoes, the general cleanliness, and the appearance of well-manicured and well-kept city, with nothing in a derelict condition, this is the backdrop for success.One of the most crucial factors of people’s performance, whether in military or in civilian fields, is morale. When an army or a people is slovenly and disorderly, it is probably because of bad leadership. Morale goes down and the army is easily defeated, or the people are overwhelmed by their problems. When an army has an officer cadre, or a people has a leadership which keeps everybody on their toes, things are kept smart and spruce, morale is never down, even under the mostadverse of circumstances. Things are never allowed to sag. Whilst we congratulate ourselves for achievements up to our 150th year, let us raise our targets even higher for the 151st year.Singapore has never looked back since that day, 6 February 1819. From a population of 150 in a small fishing village, it became 3,000 in a matter of months, and to two million today. Singapore has always attracted the ablest and the most competitive. It has thrived on the basis of free competition with the best man going to the top so we have attracted the highly skilled and the talented. Provided people are able and prepared to make the effort required in high performance, we can go on to a population of three to four million, without lowering standards of life. But it requires professional competence, technological know-how, industrial skills and work discipline. People with these qualities can always find a place in Singapore.

