BRAIN DRAIN AND THE NEED FOR A GROWING AWARENESS OF THE WIDER PROBLEMSFriends and Fellow Citizens:Unlike my National Day broadcast, which was exactly the same in all three languages, tonight, I want to address to each particular language audience the aspects which I think have to be brought forcibly out to them. I have just mentioned and I think most of you understood what I said in bazaar Malay, deliberately in bazaar Malay because I believe that what we hear on the radio or is being read on the news in television is not the kind of Malay that is being spoken and understood in the coffee shops. And the problem of equal growth, equal development and the sharing of the prosperity of which we have, the wealth and prosperity which we have created, depends as much upon the efforts of the government, its economic and fiscal policies as upon the parents themselves but I think the English-educated has hoisted in the message.The problem with the English-educated is one of growing self-centredness, complacency and acceptance that things are well and will get better just by a natural course of events. This is accentuated, of course, by the newspapers. Five years ago, when people read the newspapers, they read news against a broader background and it had a lot of news from Malaysia. Now because there are new newspapers for The Straits Times to compete against, they have also become Singapore centred and carry very little news about what is happening around us. They put the world news almost as a supplement in the centre page. So, you know, people open it and say, ‘Well, what is it all about? Middle East and Vietnam’, and they throw it out and they look for the Singapore pages, all the things Singaporeans have been accustomed to hear—how well we are doing, with praise from all quarters and this breeds a comfortable secure, insular smugness.We simply cannot afford not to take an interest in what is going on around us. In 1965 and 1966, the problems were primarily Singapore problems—how do we make the grade, how do we make a living as a country, as a people? And there were real problems, of security—two battalions which were officered and manned by mainly non-Singaporeans. Will they take the orders of the government? Perhaps, fortunately, it was never put to the test. I think there was a real anxiety and people felt it in their bones.And we were extremely cautious not to put people to such crucial instruments of government of law and order to confront them with an emotional crisis. Now there is a sense of security. Quite right. We have worked for it. We are prosperous. But we must not become self-centred.Our problems—you know, if you really sit down and think about it—have not changed at all by separation. Separation changed the manner in which the same equation will have to finally come to some balance.I feel more confident, as indeed I think you must have shared in that confidence, too, as I had the returns come in. At the end of July, I get in the facts and figures of our performance. They are indicators of whether we are going up or we are going down, and if we are going up, at what speed. All’s well, provided we keep on our toes and provided there are no major cataclysms around us.I was reading a Hong Kong weekly. It had a focus on Singapore so I flipped through. And it said that we were fortunate because—I didn’t say this, this is very important, but the Hong Kong weekly, The Far Eastern Economic Review said it—we benefitted or we profited from Malaysia’s problems in May last year. I thought, what a foolish assessment! Short-term capital outflow, perhaps marginally; if one million came here, prob- ably only a 100,000 will be left and 900,000 will be sent abroad—London, New York, Sydney, Perth, Vancouver. It’s not in our interest to have instability, insecurity around us—whether it is in Indonesia with President Suharto, whether it is in Malaysia with Tunku Tun Razak and Tun Ismail. It is in our interest that they prosper, even more.And I was discussing with one of the ministers, who came down recently, Tun Ismail, this problems of the brain drain. It’s also not in our interest that there should be a brain drain because out of ten perhaps of high-quality or high-level manpower, maybe one or two will stop in Singapore. The others, once they have decided to go up, go beyond. And you know, Mr. Trudeau went to my community centre a few months ago and he said to my community centre management committee. He said it in all sincerity. He said, ‘Well, look, come to Canada. We don’t buy anybody. If you’ve got skill or got education, you are welcome’. I know that. I spent five weeks in Vancouver in the University of British Columbia and I know that there is quite a sizeable Chinese community there. I thought to myself, ‘Well, you lose all the people with enterprise, with drive, with thrust to places like Vancouver, and you will be that much impoverished, your development will slow down, unemployment will increase, social unrest becomes intense, guerrilla insurrection becomes almost an inevitable and logical conclusion.So I told Tun Ismail, ‘You know, when, we in 1959 and 1960, put some measures into force, they were necessary or we believed then to be necessary at that time’. Many teachers, civil servants, doctors and other professional types moved over to Kuala Lumpur and come to Johore Bahru. If they have gone to Vancouver, they would never have come back. Fortunately, they went to Kuala Lumpur and Johore Bahru so when things settled down and they decided that we were not a communist government after all, they came back. And, therefore, if we can halt the drift towards Vancouver, or Perth for that matter, another favourite place—you know, a number of English-educated, the wealthy professionals, send their children there for education. That’s a kind of insurance: one, for their children’s future, two, for their own. So when it gets a bit risky, they join their children, who meantime would have established themselves in a new environment.I would think that we benefitted from the fact that Kuala Lumpur offered our brains a perch for a few years. Then came ’61, the break with the communists in ’62, the showdown in ’63 and they floated back into Singapore. And, therefore, when a Malaysian comes to Singapore, we let him in; we do not try to stop him from practising either as a doctor or a lawyer or any other profession because we believe that way when things turn out well, as we hope they will, then the brains would not have been lost.Meanwhile, we have to get on with our job and our job requires a growing awareness of the wider problems. When I say we have to be on the alert, we have to be on our toes, it is not just another cliché. In 1972, there is a presidential election in America. As things are going on at the moment, the chances are there will be intense pressure for a complete American withdrawal from South Vietnam and the whole of South Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, the Indo-Chinese area, Indo-China. What hap- pens after that if it takes place? The Americans are making it quite clear, not just the Nixon Doctrine, the repeated emphasis by American senators and congressmen in positions of influence, the opinion formulators, people who not just telecast news or write columns in important newspapers but people who help formulate policies there, thinking digits who publish articles in Foreign Affairs, which is one of the most important journals on American foreign policy thinking—they are tending that way, and not only out of Southeast Asia, but also to cut down in South Korea, to cut down in Europe where they’ve got some over 300,000 troops. ‘Western Europe’, asks Senator Mansfield, ‘has 300 plus million, American has only 200 million, and Western Europe can’t defend itself? Or it doesn’t want to defend itself and wants to do it the easy way?’ and so the pressure is on to cut down forces to compel the Europeans to make a bigger contribution. What does that mean for us?It means that the British presence here gives us a little time, maybe four years, perhaps if the Tories win again, eight or nine years, or perhaps like the last 13 years, but that depends on the British economy, how strong it is or how weak it can become with successive labour problems, dock strikes. Every now and again, in one section of an industry goes on, eight women who stitch motor car cushions go on strike, the whole factory closes down because the other parts can’t work. You’ve read the news- papers, so have I. I think you ought to read the little column in the centre page, in the city page. It says ‘Abnormally good balance, visible balance of payment surplus for July’. Then they explain why it was not a true reflection of the July position. When you export, you register or you give your returns two weeks after that. So you have exported in June before the strike and you register in July. So you said ‘tremendous large number of exports’. When you import, the goods are stuck in the ships, so it is not registered. It’s got rotten – the bananas, the pineapples, the fruit, the vegetables. So they have a significant balance of payment. But next month, when the figures are seasonally adjusted, as they call it, then the enormity of the truth will dawn on everybody. Therefore, we cannot bank on this. And they are under pressure to make more and more commitments to Europe. Eventually, as I envisage it, we will be important because we are an important naval junction. So there will be ships which we welcome. Will there be the same commitment? Perhaps with the troops on the ground here, yes, but for how long?So with all these problems looming over the horizon, the English-educated should shake themselves out of this complacency. Nobody is going to fight and die for us. The troops here—whether they are just Australians and New Zealanders plus the British, the Commonwealth brigade—are not going to fight the kind of war the Americans have fought in Vietnam. If the Americans can’t take that kind of a war, do you believe that the British, Australians and New Zealand Parliaments will allow their governments to fight that kind of a war? And that is the kind of a war which we may well be contended with and right away, we will take action, and we are taking action, against all this incipient terrorism. We cannot let it grow. We’ve got to get Singapore so organised that any illegal, any illicit immigration, any illicit terrorists or saboteur must be discovered.The Japanese had what they call the Jikeidan. It wasn’t a bad system. We don’t want a police state but we’ve got to find some way in which we prevent our whole society from living in a state of constant anxiety with bombs being exploded but at the end of it all, I think we deserve what we have worked for and we are the only people. You just think and ask yourselves. You know, I read often the figures and statistics. Japan is by far the most industrialised of Asian countries. You can see it by one of the indicators, the per capita consumption of electricity. The higher the industrial growth of a country, the more electricity it consumes in the factories and in the homes. Hong Kong is second.But I will tell you the advantage of being a Singaporean. You can look the world in the eye. You can look anybody in the eye. This we have created. Hong Kong has no choice. The alternative is communism. So they put up with the British governors and British officials who run the place. But here it is we, we run it and this is one of the few places where the Asian can hold up his head and there is an Asian takes orders naturally from a fellow Asian, as if it has always been so. In fact, it has not been so for 140 years out of the 151. You know, for 140 years it was the British administrator and the governor who ran this place and he gave the orders. And there are few places where indigenous peoples themselves have taken over and they have enough self-respect to listen to people who are in command over them. Without this one very important quality, we could easily drift into a kind of Congo situation. You know, the army does not listen to the president or the prime minister and the corporal makes himself the president and declares himself to be field-marshal. That is the end of it. I don’t believe this is possible in Singapore, not with the kind of army and navy and the air force we are building. There are too many national servicemen educated who know that you may be a brigadier or a colonel and soon will be a three-star general and four-star general, but that doesn’t mean you know how to run the economy and that doesn’t mean that you got the right to runthis place.And my hope is that whilst we have reasons for satisfaction and congratulations on this fifth anniversary, let us not forget that success brings new problems, problems of complacency, problems of rising standards, problems of our own citizens not wanting to do unpleasant jobs and problems now more grave of regional unrest.That given a modicum of luck and a great deal of hard work and good planning, I hope to be able to meet a more prosperous, a more vigorous and the better organised audience five years from today.Thank you.
