TOUGH LOVE NEEDED TO MAINTAIN UPWARD TRAJECTORYFriends and Fellow Citizens:This is the first time we meet here and allow what I am saying to you and your responses because what I am saying to you is as important as your response to what I am saying to you and is going on ‘live’. For five years we have met here and spoken privately. I think we cannot go on doing the things we are doing unless not only you but a lot of other people outside know theraison d’être, the background, the reasons, the problems which we can only hint at.I am not here tonight to preach blood, sweat and tears or talk about the apocalypse. You have done well—six superb years, a magnificent performance against all the odds so much so that everybody says, ‘But of course, everybody knows that Singapore is a very well-endowed place, geographically favoured by the gods, good infrastructure, communications, sea, air, land, good banking system, skilled workers. Oh, just natural course of events’. It wasn’t, you know. We made it so. And if a lot of the stupid things I read in the newspapers, if the people who wrote those stupid things were listened to, you won’t be here, I won’t be here, we won’t have this occasion. You won’t have flowers; you know, every potted plant means effort, organisation, somebody with green fingers, fertilisers. It could have so very easily been otherwise. And the more we progress, the wider the gap between us and those not so fortunate as we are which worries us. Not because we are moved purely by humanitarian considerations—we are moved by our own self-interests as a people, as a country, as a government representing a nation in the making, a nation which is slowly forged and tempered. It’s a problem which will grow.You see the graph—if you take off at the speed we are taking off, Japan takes off even faster. According to Herman Kahn, the Japanese double their gross national product (GNP) every five years; so every ten years, they quadruple their GNP. So it goes up like a jet aircraft—short take-off and suddenly from 1,000 feet in a few seconds it reaches its optimum flight level of 33,000 feet, pressurised at 5,000 to 6,000 feet. Have you seen one of these old Dakotas? It goes along the runway, you wonder whether it is going to take off. And if it doesn’t take off, well, it will crash into the perimeter fence. And even when it takes off, it’s a straight line; there is no rapid curve.We have got on to that development track. We are up, provided, of course, nobody begins to do stupid things or we allow anybody to do stupid things. And definitely, my colleagues and I haven’t got soft-headed. You know, people think that we talk about the new generation leadership. That’s quite right; we talk about it now, we talked about it in 1966 when we started pushing in new blood. We cannot designate our successors. Nobody can; not even kings can.You look at the Australians. Robert Menzies, one of the most outstanding Australian prime ministers, in fact, one of the most outstanding prime ministers of the post-war world. He tried very hard whilst he was still in the prime of life—mentally. At 70, he said, ‘You, Harold Holt, take over’. And Harold Holt went swimming and you see the shambles that they have had to face.Well, all we can do is to provide a group of able, honest and, I hope, dedicated men. Then, out of them somebody will emerge as centre forward and captain; then, there will be a goalkeeper, halfbacks, fullbacks and so on. But it doesn’t mean that because we talk about that therefore—you know, Dr. Toh, Dr. Goh and me and Ong Pang Boon. Ong Pang Boon, by the way, is only 40—we are going to be here for this decade. And there are some like Ong Pang Boon who has been with us for many years who will help bridge that transition. I am 47, he is 40 so as I hope, we fade away or rather we sit back after we have done our stint; this place still ticks. For history is a very long time.Let me tell you why we are always calculating, not for tomorrow or next year—the first thing required of any politi-al leadership, particularly in a new developing country like Singapore with precious little natural resources. All that we have got are on our two hind legs, a good torso, two arms, skilful fingers, two bright eyes and what’s in there and the data that’s fed in. That means organisation.Most governments think of tomorrow. Most political parties in Singapore think of tomorrow. Mr. Tang See Chim wrote a letter to all our party branches. I told him to; he is acting organising secretary. I said, ‘Tell the party branches to jack up the organisation. I am going to go round and have a look’. Well naturally, in 58 party branches it must leak out. So they say, ‘Ah, elections this year because next year, there will be a slump. You see, the British have gone’. So, they get active. These are puny men of straw. Even straw will fall down with gravity. These are men of feathers, white feathers.You know some of them? You know a man not when things are going well; you know the man when things are grim. But you cross a line beyond which we con- sider the security and the future of Singapore to be jeopardised. Do not believe that we have gone old and soft. As I told one of them, I don’t know about boxers; you know, after 30 they decline. I can tell you that in the political arena, de Gaulle went on till 79; he died at 80. Adenauer went on till 80 plus; he died at 90 plus.And with the years you develop a razor-sharp edge. You seldom use it because it is not necessary. But it is only not necessary because they know it is quite credible. The Chinese proverb says you call the monkey, you say ‘Watch this chicken’. Now, you understand and the monkey understands.What is in store for us? I think more years of, well, two years of continued prosperity. I believe next year will be better than this year. The indicators, all the economic indicators show that. And maybe 1973 is even better than 1972. But what happens after 1973? Well, that depends.You know, Mr. Nixon is going to have a ceremonial visit to Peking. For 20 plus years, every night Beijing Radio has berated him, the American Government, the American President Nixon also as the greatest enemy of mankind, of peace. Now, they say welcome, which means that they must put out the red carpet, the 21-gun salute because he is the president, and the guard-of-honour. You know, you don’t just go there and get insulted, not when you are the world’s greatest power and not when you are President Nixon in a presidential election year.And this is a lesson of what can and what will always happen—the unexpected. It was very simply put when we were school boys. Some of us used to put our hands on the table and said, ‘Right, you try. See who gives way first’. It’s not only strength, it’s just willpower—how high is your threshold of pain? And I think Mr. Nixon’s threshold of pain is very high. He can take a lot of punishment. He got knocked out in 1960. Then he tried for governor of California, he got knocked out in 1962. He came back in 1968. But you are dealing with a nation, not with just one leader. And the American people have had their fill. They are sick, fed up to the teeth with Vietnam. Their boys are coming home drug addicts, 40–60%. Every soldier coming back now has to have a urine test. This is the opium war in reverse. In 1840 when you wanted to break open into China, you pedalled opium, weakened the Chinese people so you have free concessions—Shanghai, Hong Kong, Canton, Tientsin. Now, they give superfine heroin, superfine like Shell with BP. They say, ‘Here, you are, extra cheap, one shot and you are in heaven’. After that you need many shots to keep going so they go home. And you know this is no joke.So you have to call it quits. And when you call quits, it’s very sad. You know, Mr. Sato, I like him because he looks a Samurai, he is a Samurai. He sits down with an impassive face just like the Japanese painting; you can imagine him with his big Samurai sword. For 20 years, the Americans say, ‘Invest in Taiwan, China’. That’s not Taiwan, its China, the nationalist China, real China. So, the Japanese have sunk a few thousand million US dollars in Taiwan. And not only that, the shipping lanes too. You know, if you just detour a little bit, that’s an extra half day; your cost of oil goes up, your cost of exports goes up and it’s a harsh world. And all he got was 20 minutes notice. ‘I am going to Beijing’, says a Nixon aide to the Japanese Ambassador. The Japanese newspapers said actually the Japanese Government had three minutes’ notice. They have not recovered from it; I wouldn’t recover from it if I were the Japanese. There are times when even a Samurai gets stunned.And see Mr. McMahon, his predecessor Mr. Holt, you know, those famous last words, ‘All the way with LBJ’. And LBJ says, ‘Well, I will not seek and if invited, I will not accept presidential nomination’. But that’s LBJ. You are not going all the way with LBJ, you are going all the way with the American Government which means the American people, their nature, their national characteristics and the people have decided that they don’t want this. They said in 1965 this is the most important and crucial corner of Asia; now they say it’s irrelevant.If the Americans had not gone there says one of the—you know, they are very good for coining these phrases, that’s why they make very good ghost writers. You go to the Arlington cemetery, you find beautiful words written. If I were in the grave there and my descendants read those words, I’ll turn in my grave because I didn’t write them. This one such ghost writer said, ‘If the Americans had never been to Vietnam, nobody would have known that Vietnam existed and deservedly so, it will be in obscurity’. Well, now you want to get out you say all these things.And the same goes for the People’s Republic of China. You see, we have always tried to be consistent. You do your sums a long way ahead. You know, just don’t play checkers, this is no good. This is a very intricate game of chess. Calculate your moves at least seven steps and his counter to each step you make. So we always say ‘The People’s Republic of China’. The People’s Republic of China told the North Vietnamese and the South Vietnamese communists, ‘Drive the Americans into the sea’. They told the North Koreans, ‘Liberate South Korea. We are with you’. Suddenly. I don’t know how many minutes’ notice they got but I don’t think they got many minutes either. You read the Monitoring Digest, you know that Hanoi—if I were a North Vietnamese Minister and I read all this, I’ll say, ‘Well, where do I come off?’ Never mind about Taiwan. I mean, Chiang Kai-shek, 20 years, you know, they keep on sending emissaries to him and said, ‘Don’t worry, we are with you’. But how can you be with me when this chap said and President Nixon has said, ‘Yes, that’s right. Beijing says there is one China. Taipei says there is one China. Therefore, there is one China and let the Chinese people decide’. It’s like you know, one of these shibboleths: An Asian solution to an Asian problem. That’s what Sukarno used to say. The Chinese—by ‘Chinese’ I mean, you know, the People’s Republic of China—told Sukarno, ‘Asian problems must be solved by Asians’. That means during Konfrontasi, 10 million Malaysians will solve the problems of 120 million Indonesians.And never forget this. You know, if I can choose a contemporary metaphor or a figure of speech—but they are dangerous. I mean, it’s just a vivid illustration of how we should, being a small country in a strategic position, how we should try and avoid being sacrificed as pawns. Every rocket, every capsule has got some gravity, some thrust; go into orbit around a planet which you can get out of its orbit if you want to with your thrust. So, we don’t want the Americans. Going around an American orbit, you get sucked and the gravitational pull is such that you will land whether you like it or not. You go around the Russians, you will land deep in Siberia. So we say, ‘No, no’.Commonwealth Five, that makes sense to me. There is the British, there is the Australians, there is the New Zealanders, there is the Malaysians, there is us. And we got enough thrust. You see, this is like the moon and the Apollo capsule. So we say, ‘Right, you are leaving me, well, all right, good luck to you. We have to part company, often in sorrow, old friend, so we sing Auld Lang Syne’. And we have the comfort of knowing that we’ve got enough thrust to get off on to a new track and keep on thinking of the other possible tracks. That’s what we must do and meanwhile make use of the time.The best that can happen after the Nixon visit—South Vietnam becomes neutral, 1973. Nixon says, ‘There youare’. The South Vietnamese are given a fighting chance. The Americans—if I were Nixon this is what I want to do – have discharged their task honourably. Not that the South Vietnamese must win and the anti-communists in Saigon control the country but they are given a fighting chance: ‘Here you are, M-16s’. We pay $350 for every rifle they give free of charge; helicopters, mortars, ships, aircraft, all free. Now you got a fighting chance. And perhaps they are able to stay and stick. Then Laos, Cambodia, neutral; Thailand still some American troops. Then Malaysia solves her economic problems, her social problems, her intercultural problems and we hope the five-year development plan will help resolve these problems. Because it is in our interests—a booming prosperous Malaysia as a neighbour even if they don’t import or export via Singapore, it is good for us. There’s the spin-off in so many things. And Indonesia recovers from the mismanagement of the Sukarno era, slowly rises. Then, peace and prosperity.And naturally, we move like the jet and perhaps we go on to a spacecraft. Don’t just stay at 30,000 feet. We get into a jet up into outer space; from an industrial, technological base we become the sparking plug for development. We provide the banking, the expertise, the brains, the consultancies—all that you can think of. You want to build a hospital complex, we can do it cheaper than any American team because we know the conditions and we probably have quite a number of Americans in partnership with us. And whatever you want to do we can do as well, if not cheaper because we are here on the spot.So, as our economic experts tell me, we go on from physical servicing to brain servicing. That means we upgrade the level of our performance. But mind you, there still has to be the road sweeper. The chap has got to collect your garbage. We have to mechanise because our young men having been to school, they don’t want to do that. So we now have work permit holders to do it. And after a while, there is a limit. You see the work site—60–70% are non-Singapore workers.They work harder, they take greater risks. What they earn here is two to three times what they can earn in their own country but we carry a social load. They dirty the place. They were not brought up in our schools system. They litter. It’s a problem. And if you take too many, then instead of our values being superimposed on them, they will bring us down to their values because it’s easier to be untidy, scruffy, dirty, anti-social, anti-government than to be disciplined, well-behaved and a good citizen.Now supposing the worst happens—sometimes I get glimpses of what may go wrong—instead of Saigon sticking, Saigon sinks and collapses like the KMT in China. Laos, Cambodia technically neutral, actually you know on whose side they are on. Then what about Thais? There are seven big huge whacking B-52 air bases from which even now the Americans are taking off and bombing what they call the DMZ, demilitarized zone. I always wonder why they call it ‘Zee’ but anyway prob- ably it’s the Dutch influence. And the Vietnamese, they borrowed a lot of words and with words—ideas, concepts, values from the Chinese. There is a saying which says ‘a tooth for a tooth and a blood debt must be paid in blood’. Well, you know what will then happen. The rest you can do your arithmetic.So can I and so must a lot of our officers who sit down and say, ‘Look, assuming the worse happens, what are the possibilities of one, buffering Singapore from the shocks, two, you know like an earthquake, you build a building with floating foundation so however big the quake you can survive; maybe a few cracked windows but the structure will hold’. And that’s what we are trying to do and never mind what the newspapers tell you. If they know as much as we do, they should be running Singapore, isn’t it? Particularly those who just come out from the university, you know, they just come out from school and as for those who pontificate, the expatriates who come out here, well, I enjoy reading it, it’s good English. They write good English because it’s their language. But do they know the place after two, three years? Some of them have just discovered that there are in fact four different societies in Singapore. There is the Malay-educated, there is the Indian-educated, there is the Chinese-educated, there is the English-educated. Then, there are Chinese who are English-educated, then there are Chinese who are Chinese-educated—they just discovered it! Eureka!We did this calculation way back in 1960 and we shaped the education policy so that language will not become an issue as it has in several countries. I leave you with this thought of what can go wrong and what could have happened. I went to a well- established university recently, the British had established it 30, 40 years ago, and the engineering faculty ran simultaneous classes in three languages—three languages! So, the vice-chancellor put on his tie to show me that his PhD is not from this university; he knew that I was educated abroad. He put on an Oxbridge tie, one of the ties which he knows I would recognise, so his PhD is a real one. He took me round. So I said, ‘You run three classes every year?’ He said, ‘Yes’. I said, ‘What about the textbooks?’ He said, ‘Well, they translate the textbooks’. I said, ‘You translate all the journals?’ He said, ‘No, no, just the basic textbooks’. So I said, ‘Well, how many editions is it behind the original text by the time it is used by the students?’ He said, ‘Well, two to three editions whilst translating, two to three editions whilst printing so the students get it five to six editions behind’. So we went to the library. ‘Have a look at it,’ he said. ‘There you are and that’s what you call “nation making”. Who says we can’t do science and engineering? Of course, we can’. So I asked him, I said, ‘Is the translator a language expert or is he also an engineer?’ He said, ‘Your Excellency, that is a political question. I can’t answer that’. So I said, ‘Let’s suppose that you have to build a bridge and you have a team—six engineers, three in one language, two in another language and one in the third language, how do they work on one bridge?’ He looked at me and his face was very sad and he said, ‘Your Excellency, that’s politics. I am only in charge of the university’.He knew and he probably suspected that I knew that one bridge had recently collapsed. So, you see, this is not a joke. It doesn’t mean that because you do it today, tomorrow is perdition. No, you do it today, perdition comes five, ten years later but it is inexorable. Once you go down that slippery path, you will end up with all the skeletons down in the valley to death where all the broken-back countries are. And it’s my job—my colleagues and I—naturally we like to be popular. Everybody likes to be a friendly, nice, pleasant, charitable, helpful minister, particularly the prime minister and everybody will say, ‘Nice man’. But to be kind to you and your children, sometimes we have to take a very sharp knife and go through the movements and say, ‘Look, don’t do that or I will have to—you know this will have to be used’. And, alas, for money and other considerations they force us to use it. But at the end of the day, you are better off because nobody will believe that they can tinker with this place. We cannot allow it. And we have got enough nous in us to believe. You know, we were brought up the hard way. We fought the communists and they are real tough. Lim Chin Siong used to sleep on top of a desk in Middle Road to show how dedicated he is. He said, ‘Lee is a bourgeois chap, he cannot sleep on the top of a desk; he needs a mattress’. So he thought he will eat us up, we are softies. He was wrong. That’s why he is in England and we have given him a scholarship to study in order to do accountancy. But we learnt one thing— no hostages to fortune. And we will see this place through provided you don’t slacken. Because as I have said, however good you are, however tough-minded you are—Nixon is a tough-minded man—if the people don’t want it, well, as de Gaulle said—he wasreported by this good friend the writer called Andre Malraux—he said, ‘The French people don’t deserve France. Climbing uphill,they get tired so they prefer to walk downhill, rest for a while’. And he said, ‘That’s the end of grandeur. Well, I resign’. Well, I don’t propose to resign. I am going to see my job through and I don’t believe any one of my colleagues is going to opt out of this duty, however unpleasant it is. But we will see this place safe and secure. And if we use the next six years—I don’t know whether we have six years or even five years, we may be lucky if we’ve got ten years—then I say, ‘My colleagues and I will hand over instruments, organisations which we didn’t have. All we had was clay’. What we will give them are hard and steel implements to resolve the problems that we know must come. So make use of the time, be it five years, be it six, be it ten and a happy anniversary next year when I hope to meet you again.Thank you.