PRIDE, AS SINGAPORE MARKS A TURNING POINTFriends and Fellow Citizens:1972 is a very special year for us. It marks a significant turning point in our history. It was never intended that Singapore should be an independent country, let alone one that has every promise of thriving and prospering.Seven years ago, many wrung their hands in despair— how were we to solve all the enormous problems which even with British tutelage and more or less an integrated or a linked economy with Peninsular Malaya or the Federation of Malaya could not solve our unemployment problems then. How were we after we were out of Malaysia, to solve it? And when in 1968, just four-and-a-half years ago, we were told that 20% of our gross national product (GNP) was to be knocked off, people just gave us up for lost.Tonight, I think, we have cause for rejoicing. Only a tough- minded people united in their resolve to make the grade could have done it. And it is so easily done, once everybody looks back on the seven years and the last four years. They say, ‘But of course, workers, they had the Employment Act to guide them, make them work, investments flowed in’. But you and I know how it worked because workers, employers and government pulled in the same direction, and we knew what was at stake, and the price that we would pay if we failed. And we were determined not to fail.Today, I think it is useful if we took stock of our position. In 13 years—since we took office, thirteen and a quarter, if you want to be accurate—our overseas assets have grown from $320 million—13 times—to $4,200 million. That is just the overseas assets. But our own development—the increase in wealth, the infrastructure: the generating stations, the wharves, container terminals, reclaimed land—I could read out a whole host of such investments: Jurong Town Corporation, Telephone Board, Housing Board—just on paper alone, just the paper figures, including defence and internal security, which we pay for, mind you, every Armalite that we assemble and the spare parts that we manufacture, we pay the company royalty. Nobody gives us things for free like South Vietnam. And we can look the world in the eye. But excluding all that, we have added on paper another $4,000 million. But if you take into account increase and what the things are now worth, and depreciation, of course, for the things that have been run down, I think we could round it off—both external assets and internal increase in wealth to $10,000 million, which means about $5,000 per person—men, women and children.And a nation, just like a family or a limited company, the kind of returns that they can give, the output depends on the capital assets it has got. If all your firm has got are screw drivers and hammers making nails, your total output is going to be negligible. This increase in the social, economic infrastructure meant that our incomes— GDP, gross domestic product, as the economists say—trebled in the last decade. And last year, it was over $3,000 per person.And because of that, the Canadians—well, very friendly and very kind-hearted people—they divided it by three, not taking into account the fact that the magic figure of US$1,000 is taken as having crossed the underdeveloped to the developed line. They say, ‘You are developed and this year, no more scholarships to Singapore’.Well, I thank the Prime Minister, Monsieur Pierre Trudeau, for the help that he gave us for all those years. And I said, if I had to choose between squandering and frittering away resources so that our GNP stayed below US$1,000 per person per annum and utilising it at the cost of losing Canadian aid, I would rather not have Canadian aid and pay for myself.And I hoped that his other recipients in Asia and in Africa would similarly make the grade.Perhaps, one of the important points or the reasons why we became different from the other countries is that we never believed anything was for free, not even the water that we drink, which we pay for—or part of it we pay for—or the air that we breathe, even the fans that keep you cool. That means oil, which means royalties to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) countries. And hence it is important that nobody in Singapore should ever drift into a position where they believe that things are for free.
And I am sure Mrs. Bandaranaike, Prime Minister of Ceylon, spoke from her heart when she said this, as reported when she left China on 23 July: She said, ‘I really felt ashamed when Chinese Prime Minister, Mr. Chou En-lai, told me our country has been receiving foreign aid and we have been eating it up—giving rice free, health services and education free, as we are doing. And that is not the correct road to socialism, Chou En-lai told me categorically’, so said Mrs. Bandaranaike. Have nothing for free. It costs somebody effort. And capital means accumulated effort. That is what it means.And so I cannot but express my sympathy for those who wanted to improve on their accumulated effort and invested in chit funds, people who lost for whom I have sympathy are not those who went and gambled day by day. There are many things that go on in Singapore without my knowing it or any of my colleagues knowing it. We did not know that there were such things as chit funds that go every day. Well, those who gambled, they deserve it. But there were housewives, teachers, pensioners who believed that this was an attractive way of increasing their savings with interests ranging from 20% to 40%, sometimes even 50%. It was strange that there were no news nor rumours of any default or malpractice at any time, although Gemini started business from as early as 1964 and Stallion started from 1970. When the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) accountants discovered the astonishing facts, the government acted at once to minimise losses. Maximum restitution is our aim. All assets must be frozen and all properties ferreted out and recovered. All subscriptions from those who have bid must be collected as and when they are due—whether daily, weekly or monthly. Maximum recoveries of all monies, properties and assets that can be got at were the primary objective. And when all these monies have been collected, the Official Receiver will distribute them—pro rata to all ‘live’ subscribers, which means those who have contributed but have not yet drawn on the chit funds. Needless to say, I believe the attorney-general knows that his duty will be to see that justice is fully and publicly done in our courts.I think it would be wrong to prejudge whether these monies were lost through ill-advised investments or for other reasons. But I think Singaporeans must become a little more sophisticated. You know, as we go up the economic ladder so the num- ber of people with get-rich-quick schemes. They come from all the wealthy countries—Americans, Europeans, Australians. And they look good. There is one called Holiday Magic Limited, marvellous, pyramid selling. I read it. Well, I happened to read all about pyramid selling in foreign newspapers and so they were out in record time. But I see that somebody carried on Holiday Magic and pyramid selling. Then there was another one—Travel House Corporation Private Limited—sounds wonderful. Within a space of a few months, people sold goods or bought tickets from them worth nearly half a million dollars. And now as the phrase goes, the police are looking for Mr. Gardner, an Australian who they believe can help them clear up this mystery.We just cannot go on being silly. The world’s fastest growing country, Japan, has been growing at a rate of 15% per annum, which means that some of their best companies may make 25%. So, if you lend or you invest in something which promises you 50%, 60%, I suggest you better see a good friend who knows what this is all about because it just isn’t true. Singapore has been growing at 14% per annum for the last three years. I can quite believe if you ran, you know, Toto. Then if you buy the right ticket and put the circles around the right numbers, well, then you hit the jack- pot at the end of the rainbow. But never believe that just because it’s called something private limited or even public limited, therefore, it can pay you 40%. If they can pay you 40%, why don’t they borrow from the bank because the banks will lend to them with security, at about 10%, 9%. I see some bankers standing there—I think you will lend with security at 9%, 10%? Without security, I know some banks have been lend- ing at about 14%, 13%. But that is the maximum the bank will lend. And they run a very great risk of losing part of the money they lent and some banks have lost money.The simple fact is never believe just what you see, better delve deeper into it. I am told that some of these gentlemen who run these companies ride in Mercedes 600. Well, you know, my colleagues and I, we run—if you like, I mean, this is a company, the Singapore Government has a budget of $1,700 million a year, and we only ride, I ride only in a Mercedes 280. And here are people riding a Mercedes 600. Something must be happening. Can it be growing from trees?So I think sophistication is an essential factor in growing up. True, we all want to make money. True, we all want to increase our savings. But I say, if there is any doubt about it, my colleague, the Minister for Finance offers bonds, 5.75% interest, income tax free. Or if you think it is too troublesome to go to the MAS to collect the bonds, just go to the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB)—4% interest, income tax free. We guarantee you no losses.One last word before I move on to matters of more importance. True, some- thing about 50 million, maybe 70 million has been lost at a GNP or GDP of about 7,000 million . . . well, 1%. That is the perspective. But that 1% is falling on some very poor people . . . and that is why we must recover every single cent.But it does not mean that because a share has been listed on the Stock Exchange, that the government says this is under sound management. That is not what it means. All it means is the government, insofar as it is able to decipher from the books, the assets and the way in which the company is run, feels that it deserves being listed. And if you buy, Eupoc, the Development Bank of Singapore (DBS) had shares and it was listed. Well, the DBS, recommended by the EDB, the Development Bank of Singapore put money into Eupoc and we had—we were still new in the business then, our boys were not so shrewd as yet and there were sharper businessmen who sold them second-hand machinery, heavy directors’ fees, heavy expenses, net result . . . the share scripts, perhaps, souvenir collectors may wish to buy them and frame them up. But no company can be guaranteed by any government or any firm or insurance companies or Lloyds or whoever undertakes the floating of a company or underwrites the floating of a company can say that it will not be fraudulent. You have got to make up your own mind and decide whether you should risk your money in it.But whilst all is reasonably well internally, and I think ‘touch-wood’, that all’s well. Besides touching wood, we do a lot of other things like getting our hands on to some good work. The international situation is changing rapidly. There is an American election coming up first Tuesday of November. Maybe, there won’t be spectacular changes. I hope not, anyway for us. There is an Australian election coming up any time October-November this year. And I think we have taken note and we acknowledge the right of any Australian Government to act in accordance with what they consider to be their national interest. And if the Australian Labour Party becomes the Australian Government and says they would wish to withdraw their troops and their Mirages, well, it is within their sovereign right and indeed all they need do under the Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom (ANZUK) arrangement is to hold consultations, in any case.And it is against this backdrop that we plan for the future. As we solve one set of problems, new and bigger ones emerge. We have got through the shock of communist riots, arson, assassinations. We went through the shock of communal riots, first time in our history in 1964. We got suddenly separated from Malaysia. The British pound suddenly devalued in November 1967 and now it is floating and we have got, I think, more than 36% of our assets in pound sterling. But all these we have overcome.But the lesson is: We have in the last analysis only ourselves to depend on. If we lack the guts and gumption to stand up for ourselves, then I say write it off, forget it. All this that we have built, just give it away. I say it is through a series of crises, if you like, stresses and strains that forge a nation out of a group of loosely-linked people. Our forefathers came here because they were looking for the pot of gold atthe end of the rainbow. Some found that pot of gold, many didn’t. They sweated their guts out and built this city out of mudflats. We’ve inherited it, we have added to it. And I say it is worth defending it.And so the defence capability which we have built up over the years will not only ensure that within—mind you, if the Russians or the Americans decide they want to capture Singapore, well, that is a different proposition altogether. It is like the Japanese Imperial Guards marching down the Peninsula of Malaya right into Singapore and 90,000 British, Indian and Australian troops were captured. But I saw them fight. I saw the British blow their bagpipes across the Causeway. I saw themmarched to captivity. And I say they were brave men.And that is what we have got to be. We have to be brave. And we need not necessarily have to fight the Japanese Imperial Guards. All we need do is to have the capacity to ward off any sneak attack for a week to a fortnight and the United Nations (UN) Security Council can intervene. But, of course, if you can’t and you are captured within 24 hours, then the whole thing is over. It is a fait accompli. And if we have this defence capability, then it is a defence capability which is not insignificant. And we are prepared to cooperate with all our neighbours to ensure the peace, stability and well-being of Southeast Asia, so that all of us can concentrate our energies and resources to the building up of better-fed, better-clothed, better-educated, more productive and more satisfying societies.And finally, may I say how proud I am that 1972 saw Singapore not at the bottom of the depths of despair which many a wiseacre wrote in 1968, but comfortably resilient, buoyant. We don’t want to be booming too much. It is no good. It is just a mild boom, keep it up. Last year it was 14%. I say, let us be on the conservative side. So 10% plus which means every year, 5% plus. And all those who want to save— and we make sure that some save in the CPF—please choose wisely, and nothing better than putting your money in constructive purposes in Singapore.My congratulations and good wishes for the coming year. Thank you.