STRONG FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES TIDE SINGAPORE THROUGH SHARP INCREASES IN WORLD FOOD PRICESSince the beginning of this year, large parts of the world have been beset by shortages of grain and other foodstuffs, leading to very high food prices. Inflation and monetary problems in America and several countries of Western Europe have made for uncertainties, leading to wildly fluctuating parities of major currencies. This was primarily caused by inflation and loss of confidence in the US dollar. The problem was compounded by the Watergate crisis. It did not help the American administration in taking effective action to stabilise the American economy and strengthen the US dollar.Because of uncertainties over the value of floating currencies, industrialists, financiers and traders in the developed countries hedged against all paper currencies by buying into commodities. This has led to a steep rise in the prices of commodities, both agricultural products and minerals.For a long time, the commodity producers of the Third World have suffered. As the industrial goods they imported cost more and more, the raw materials they produced and exported were sold for less and less. It is ironic that only when financiers and industrialists were caught in their own inflation and temporarily lost confidence in their own paper money that prices of commodities should go up. Manufacturers and speculators have been buying forward in commodities, that is, buying commodities even before they were needed or ready to be handed over.This mood, for the first time in several decades, reversed the unfavourable position of commodity producing countries. Of course, when the international currency crises are sorted out, hedging in commodities will stop. Then commodity prices will go down again. But some experts believe that in several items, prices may not go down to such low levels as in the past.Meanwhile, cocoa has gone up three times, helping countries like Ghana. Copper has doubled in price in the last year. Rubber has nearly doubled in price this year, and palm oil up two and a half times.However, all countries have been very hard hit by the sharp increase in the prices of food. No one, at the end of last year, foresaw the disastrous crop failures, especially in rice. This had made the world market prices go up between two to two and a half times. As Singapore has no significant agricultural sector in grains, we are affected by the world prices of grains, mutton and beef and other imported foods.It was unfortunate that just at the time we were about to enjoy the increased benefits of several years of hard work, such a large part of our wage increases has had to go into higher food prices. And, with the big flood now in Pakistan and India, the rice situation may not go back to normal before the 1974 harvests.But, perhaps, it is worth reminding ourselves how fortunate we have been that, because of industrialisation and the development of physical and brain services in Singapore, we have had the foreign exchange to pay for our needs. No one has suffered starvation or malnutrition.But it underlines the importance of or staying keen and efficient. We cannot afford to slacken and become easy-going. For once we are soft or disorganised, we will never be able to survive world crises of the kind the world is presently facing— food shortages, currency uncertainties and if the crisis in America is prolonged, a danger of a possible downturn in international trade. Such a recession will affect the whole world.On the other hand, if the situation improves and monetary and trade problems are resolved, we shall stand very much to benefit. For when confidence in paper currencies is restored as new currency exchange rate regulations are settled, commodity prices will come down, whilst our industrial and services sectors will surge forward. We must stay well organised, keen and hard-working, to be able to take advantage of an upturn in international trade, especially in manufactured products, when the present troubled political and financial situation is settled. By then, prices of basic foods like rice should go down dramatically with normal harvests.In this way, we can ride over the presently rough economic conditions and, gradually, but steadily, raise our real living standards.