NATIONAL DAY RALLY SPEECH AT THE NATIONAL THEATREFriends and Fellow Citizens:This ninth anniversary sees a very different Singapore and the prospect of an entirely different world since the quadrupling in the price of oil January this year and the growing double-digit inflation rates in Europe, in Japan and even in America and alas, in Singapore, too.Last year, in money terms, we made 22%, 23%, but half of it, 11%, 11.5% plus, was inflation. So in 1972 prices, we only made 11.5%. For the first six months of this year, 1974, we have made 6.75% after adjusting for inflation. You know we were hoping for 12%.A broad picture seen by the OECD in Paris, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, an association of some 25 advanced countries— their balance sheet for seven major industrial countries: Canada, US, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Britain—for the first six months, the gross national product (GNP) for these seven countries, compared to the first six months of 1973, showed a minus 1.5%. It is not the same for each country: Canada had a +6%, US −2.75%, Japan −6.5%, France +4.75%, Germany +2%, but the lowest inflation rates, Italy, +2.5%, Britain −6%.The sum total: −1.5%. We ought to be relieved that we made 6.75%.Now, OECD predictions for the second half of 1974 compared to the second half of 1973: they say, with the oil embargo lifted and judging or projecting from policies the major countries are pursuing, there will be growth of +2.75% for all countries. For all the seven, from a –1.5% to a +2.75%.If, and this is a big ‘if’, if this prediction is correct, then, of course, we will get the multiplier benefits and we will make more than 6.75% for the second half. I have some reservations because you have seen what the new American pres- ident has said—he is going to fight inflation. And he said to the American people: ‘Vote not for Democrats or Republicans’. ‘Doesn’t matter’, he says. Anyway, it may be that chances of the Republicans are not so good this November. He says, ‘Vote for those who are going to support anti-inflation policies, not free spending policies’. Which means a tight squeeze on liquidity, which means you don’t give such easy credits.The American economy is the world’s largest. The GNP is over $1,000 billion or American one trillion dollars. So between them and the Germans who are also anti-inflation, squeezing credit, we are going to have an anti-inflation emphasis in the next few months. If inflation is brought under control by next year, the OECD estimates may be right. They say plus 3.75% growth for the seven big countries for the first half of 1975.Now, this has repercussions for all countries. Booming economies, they demand more raw materials, more steel, copper, zinc, rubber, palm oil. When they slow down, they need less iron ore, copper, even less crude oil. People are calculating that there is a surplus of production over consumption of about somewhere between three to four billion barrels a day, 10%. All the storage tanks are filled up because everybody is slowing down to fight inflation. And so the Australians are getting less . . . They were booming last year. They are getting less now for their iron ore and other minerals. And the Malaysians have advised their rubber growers to hold back 10% of their rubber production in order not to let the price go down. But between two dollars plus per kilo, which was what it was, it is now $1.65, $1.64.It has a multiplier effect. The whole world is interlocked, which means unless we take tough measures, unless we discipline ourselves, then we will get roaring inflation and we will run through our reserves. So, although we gave everybody $40 plus 6% or 10%, depending on whether they get an increase this year or not, we upped the Central Provident Fund (CPF) rates. I know there will be grumbles. People like to have money now to spend. But that is bad for the economy and bad for you.The price of your flats is going to go up, the price of cement goes up, steel goes up, because they use electricity. They are what is called energy-intensive products. Roughly speaking, prices of buildings, materials and labour have gone up by 30% compared to last year. So you will need more savings in the CPF to buy your flat.And don’t forget, we are also paying higher interest rates on all CPF monies. Which means, the Housing Board now borrows at a much higher rate. You get, on your CPF, 6.5% on old and new deposits. Housing Board has been borrowing at low rates. In order to make that 6.5%, Housing Board will have to pay much higher rates, and there is an argument now how much higher it must be.You can’t have more interest and have cheaper houses. It is not possible. Perhaps it is fairer to have higher interest rates, more in line with the market, and higher prices.People, particularly foreigners, in their newspapers, say we are an authoritarian lot because we are prepared to discipline ourselves. There is a style about writing articles as there is with clothes. The West sets the style. Every year, they change to make you buy new clothes, throw away all your good old ones. They make the tie broader. They make the lapels broader. They make the trousers flared. They make the boys wear high heels with platforms. That is the consumer society. Buy now, pay later. If you can’t pay, never mind, borrow. Keep on borrowing, keep on paying.Some of these things we cannot altogether avoid because we have got into that development track. You see it in the cinemas, on television, in the magazines, the glossy pictures.But just sit back and think. That’s meant for Americans whose per capita income is nearly 8,000 dollars per person per annum, going up perhaps, with the inflation to 10,000 dollars per capita per annum. Ours is not. We are starting from a very low baseline. So just save. That’s for the developed, wealthy, affluent.Let me go to the other extreme—the poor. You’ve read about Bangladesh: famine, floods. Well, when we discipline ourselves, the Western journalists say authoritarian government, dictatorial, no freedom. When Bangladesh gets into trouble, let me read to you the kind of sympathy they show. I am reading from a reputable newspaper, the London Times, 14 August. And they sign themselves. Mr. Nicholas Ashford writes:Bangladesh lives continuously on the brink of disaster, and it is hardly surprising that many foreign aid officials have become fatalistic. Some believe Bangladesh can never become economically viable, and will always have to be supported by massive injections of foreign assistance.Even optimists expect that the country will require sustained large- scale aid for many years . . . and that self-sufficiency will only be possible if the high population growth rate can be curbed.When you cannot put your house in order, they say, ‘Well, there you are, hope- less case, non-viable’. The sympathy you get are just words.Another correspondent, the same newspaper—three articles on a human tragedy. Michael Hornsby from Dacca, he is more sympathetic because he is right there on the spot:So far, the only international response to the Bangladesh Government’s appeal for help has been a trifling contribution of $20,000 (US, of course), from the United Nations Disaster Relief Office in Dacca, and an aircraft load of supplies from Britain.Anywhere between 60 million, I don’t know, 60, 70 million, they haven’t taken a census for some time, there has been a war, many have died. But definitely, not less than 55 million people, 70,000 square miles.And the ending is, Michael Hornsby from Dacca:There is probably also a feeling that the floods do not represent a compelling case for a special international relief effort in as much as they are an annual phenomenon with which Bangladesh must learn to cope with its own resources if it is to be a viable country.If it is to be a viable country, this is an annual phenomenon; you cope. There is a moral in all this for us.If we don’t cope with our problems, that’s the sympathy we will get. And even as we are coping with out problems, you know the rumours that go out—Singapore is not viable. Mind you, it’s a hoax. I don’t blame them. They try; no hinterland, no oil. Viability as you have seen—70,000 square miles, 55 million people. And the conclusion, Michael Hornsby from Dacca writes, is: ‘. . . must learn to cope with its own resources if it is to be viable’. And I think that is the firstlesson: we learn to cope with our problems.The acid test is whether at the end of the day, we have solved our problems. You can multiply Singapore ten times over, but you multiply the population 15 times over, then we are worse off than we are now.We have given to us this small island. But a very valuable piece of real estate, the most valuable per square meter, anywhere in this part of the world. And it is because of its position, its infrastructure and its people. The biggest human resource we could have ever asked for—willing to try, willing to work, willing to make that extra effort.It does not matter if people spread rumours. It is utter and complete madness, some of these rumours.But when I had a meeting with the press recently to go through the figures with them, one asked me at the end of it quite anxiously: ‘Tomorrow, National Day speech, are you really going to resign? You are going to announce your resignation?’You have heard the others? I am not wanting to be a rumour-monger. But this has gone around. You might as well . . . If you haven’t heard it, well, you will hear it: a big split in the cabinet, big row between Dr. Goh and me, I stand in the way of remerger, Singapore is not viable. All the time, it’s directed at your confidence. That is the target: your morale, your confidence. I am glad to know that they believe that if I am going to resign, that will shake confidence. That’s a great compliment to me! In which case I shall disappoint them. And I intend to stay and see my job through.But we have other problems. And we have got to face them. The world that we have known up till now is changing rapidly. The international background is changing. 1973, Paris peace talks, withdrawal of the Americans from Vietnam, that’s February; August, no bombing of Cambodia; October, change of government in Thailand. This year, before the year is out, there is going to be the People’s Republic of China’s embassy in Kuala Lumpur. It’s only a matter of time before the People’s Republic of China will be represented in all of Southeast Asia.We should not make the mistake of confusing the PRC, the People’s Republic of China, with the CPM, the Communist Party of Malaya as they call themselves— Peninsular Malaya together with Singapore. They demonstrated it quite clearly. The PRC may, for their own national interests, have government-to-government correct relations, G-to-G. But the local communist party is a separate matter.We have made our position clear. When our immediate neighbours, Malaysia, Indonesia, have diplomatic relations, we will have diplomatic relations. Just like China, we calculate what is in our interest. And our interest is best served by not taking first or second place. There are many reasons. First, the long-standing suspicion that we are 75+%—actually 78% by the 1970 census—ethnic Chinese. American, Australian, British scholars, they call us Overseas Chinese. There is a very subtle difference in the term. They don’t call Australians and New Zealanders Overseas British; they are Australians, they are New Zealanders. But they call us Overseas Chinese. I think there is a subconscious question mark. When I tell them I am a Singaporean, sometimes they say, ‘Yes, perhaps you are’, they concede that. But they want to know whether the 78% minus me are Singaporeans. I am convinced that the majority, the overwhelming majority, are. Otherwise, they would not have voted for this government so decisively in 1968 and again in 1972. But there is no harm in letting others take first and second places.There is no question of recognition. We recognise China; China recognises us. We carry a dialogue in the UN, wherever they are represented, in London, Tokyo, if we like, in Hong Kong. In Singapore, there are two banks. The Bank of China and the Kwantung Provincial Bank are owned by the government of the PRC. And two insurance companies. No problems about trade. In fact, they buy very little and we buy a lot. The balance of trade is immensely in their favour. Of course, we don’t object to this so long as, overall, there is a credit balance.You have watched the ping-pong team. You have watched the badminton. I think Mr. Barker is going to arrange for the PRC football team. Name it and you will have it, except some forms of opera which are now not in vogue in the People’s Republic of China.The ultimate question that we must measure against every policy is: Is this in our interest? As of now, I say no. And I am prepared to say that the majority of the people will support this. When the time comes and it is in our interest, we will do so.The crux of our problem is not lack of a huge hinterland, oil, mineral resources. It would be nice if we could have these things. It saves us from working very hard. But that is not for us.We have got to remain trim, hardworking, organised. Nature, geography and history decided that for us. The answer lies within ourselves—the capacity to turn a people of largely immigrant stock into a people with enough cohesiveness, with a national identity of their own, able to pursue their national interests regardless of outside pressures. And we are going to have these outside pressures. We’ve had them.If I go to India, and I am seen shaking hands with President Giri or Mrs. Indra Gandhi, some Indians are happier. I have no doubts that if I were to take a picture with the leaders of the PRC, there will be temporary euphoria amongst a section of the people. But is it in our interest? But, without that, we are able to establish that we govern Singapore in the interest of all Singaporeans regardless of race, language or religion. And we are prepared to be equally tough . . .You know what happened in 1969—we were tough on the Chinese gangsters who were trying to start off a riot here. And I specifically spoke in Malay just now, about problems or supposed problems that have been raised and discussed in the Malay press about their freedom of religion and so on. In fact, it’s absurd because far from wanting to discourage religion, we believe that those with religion, if they believe in it, if they have faith in their God and His commandments, at least they will be more resistant to the permissiveness of contemporary society—all the drug taking, all the amoral and immoral behaviour, a result of too rapid a change in society.My last comment this evening is that you are not to hear the last of the rumours. You are going to hear more. Always ask yourself: What’s this aimed at? To shake your confidence. Who benefits if Singapore is shaken? Not Singaporeans. And what proximity to truth?Singapore must grow in sophistication, in their ability to take things in their stride. Never get carried away with too much success. Never be downcast when you haven’t made the targets you aimed for because intervening circumstances have changed the situation. But there is one fundamental quality we have, which nothing can change, and that is the verve, the vitality, the drive in our people. Call it what you will—the DNA, double helix—whatever you like to call it, is in us. That is the most precious asset we’ve got, but it can only be used if there is organisation, there is cohesion, there is unity of purpose and objective between government, people, between unions and employers.Let me end up by another quote from the London Times. This is 13 August, and the writer is Michael Lipton, Professorial Fellow at the Institute of Development Studies, Sussex. He said,Three years ago, the government of Ceylon invited the International Labour Office to send a team to advise on Ceylon’s development problems. As a member of that team, I am struck by an uncanny similarity between Ceylon’s problems in 1971 and Britain’s in 1974 . . .In both cases, political parties had competed to offer guarantees of consumer welfare, without creating sufficient productive capacity to meet them.In both cases, governments were driven to borrow abroad, at ever- rising interest rates, in a desperate attempt to sustain living standards. Ceylon had the excuse of poverty; Britain has not.We may have the excuse of semi-poverty. But let’s not get into that syndrome. And if people say that balancing our budget, refusing to go along with the fads and fancies of the contemporary permissive societies of the West, if that is authoritarian- ism, well, so be it: I’m solvent. Singapore is solvent. I hope to meet you, next year, perhaps plus, maybe—if what the OECD says is true that the seven major countries will grow by 3.75%—then we’ll grow by 9, 10, 11%.Singapore must grow in sophistication, in their ability to take things in their stride. Never get carried away with too much success. Never be downcast when you haven’t made the targets you aimed for because intervening circumstances have changed the situation. But there is one fundamental quality we have, which nothing can change, and that is the verve, the vitality the drive in our people. Call it what you will—the DNA, double helix—whatever you like to call it, is in us. That is the most precious asset we've got, but it can only be used if there is organisation, there is cohesion, there is unity of purpose and objective between government, people, between unions and employers.

Let me end up by another quote from the London Times. This is 13 August, and the writer is Michael Lipton, Professorial Fellow at the Institute of Development Studies, Sussex. He said,

Three years ago, the government of Ceylon invited the International Labour Office to send a team to advise on Ceylon's development problems. As a member of that team, I am struck by an uncanny similarity between Ceylon's problems in 1971 and Britain's in 1974 …

In both cases, political parties had competed to offer guarantees of consumer welfare, without creating sufficient productive capacity to meet them.

In both cases, governments were driven to borrow abroad, at ever-rising interest rates, in a desperate attempt to sustain living standards. Ceylon had the excuse of poverty; Britain has not.

We may have the excuse of semi-poverty. But let's not get into that syndrome. And if people say that balancing our budget, refusing to go along with the fads and fancies of the contemporary permissive societies of the West, if that is authoritarianism, well, so be it: I'm solvent. Singapore is solvent. I hope to meet you, next year, perhaps plus, maybe—if what the OECD says is true that the seven major countries will grow by 3.75%—then we'll grow by 9, 10, 11%.