The Attitudes Singapore Cannot Afford
Friends and Fellow Citizens:The past decade was probably the most spectacular of all the ten years of Singapore’s history. There had never been such rapid transformation in any ten years. The physical landscape changed with new buildings, new roads, flyovers, traffic jams, homes, new factories. Our gross domestic product (GDP) went up at factor cost nearly three times between 1965 and 1975. When we borrow from the World Bank or from the Asian Development Bank, there are no more soft loans. We are classified now as an intermediate country— not developed, not developing but intermediate—and we pay the going market interest rate.We seized every opportunity to develop as fast as we could because ten years ago, you will remember, there was massive unemployment—at least over 12%. Ten years after, with the new standard of income, we have got ourselves into a different mood, the younger generation especially, people who were not old enough in 1965 to understand what hardship and unemployment meant. And they are truly a different generation. Expectations have gone up. Unconsciously, we have entered into the free-spending consumer society of the West. Parents spoil their children. There are better clothes, better food, better housing. All the time, their expectation goes up and up, believing that it is always going to be up the escalator.If there were no oil crisis, the 1973 prices did not quadruple, the developed world did not take a nosedive and gross national products (GNPs) weren’t down by 12%, 13%, 14% in America and Japan, perhaps we could put up with this. But let me, by way of illustration, show you the changed attitudes which we cannot afford because the next five years will not be like the last five years. With oil prices five times what they were in 1974 and likely to go up this September by anywhere between 10%, perhaps more—some papers talk about 30%—we are not going to get the 10–14% real growth which we made in the years 1968 to 1973.Recently, we mounted an exercise to recruit drivers for the Singapore Bus Service (SBS). You know that we have got to have more buses to have a good bus service and you need good drivers. So, we thought that the national servicemen who had learnt how to drive a three-ton truck should be offered the opportunity. So, we mounted three recruitment exercises this year.Ten years ago, if you had introduced a man into the Singapore Traction Company (STC) or into a Chinese bus company as a driver, he would have been happy to have given you his one month’s salary as commission. We circularised the posts. About 800 national servicemen went on Run-Out Date (ROD) between January and July. About 500 turned up to listen to the opportunities we were offer- ing them. SBS produced a coloured brochure ‘The Bus Way to a Secure Future’ with diagrams and pictures. And on the face of the brochure it said ‘This is not a sales brochure which you receive every day. This is a career prospectus which took us months to prepare just for you.’ You know how many applied? Seven the first batch, 34 the second batch, 20 the third batch. You know how many are working now? One driver and three temporary conductors training to be drivers. Remarkable! Whilst training you are paid $11.60 per day, one year as recruits, then $12.80. This bewildered me. I chased up the Central Manpower Base. I said, ‘What are they doing? What marvellous job are they holding?’ Because I got the monthly returns as to how many workers are retrenched, how many work permits issued. And I know that in the last 18 months since the retrenchment started, 30,000 workers have been retrenched, 70% women and girls. But I just took this year, January to July, and of the 7,500 retrenched, 4,800, nearly 4,900, were women. In those same seven months, we issued 11,500 work permits of which 4,400 were for women. It does not square up.What happened to these national servicemen? They had primary six and secondary two, the highest levels. Many of them were just sitting at home! Some of them had gone out into the reserves in January, 40 or 50 of them are still unemployed. They go in at 18, they finish at 20. They only have a Class III for driving a three-ton truck; you have got to be 21 before you take a Class IV to drive a bus. Originally, in the second batch, eight went in. They were asked whilst practising to drive a bus and waiting to reach the age of 21 to get a Class IV licence to sell tickets. They said pai-sei (shy)—they liked their passengers behind them and did not want to face each chap to sell a ticket. This is the new-generation Singaporean.If there had been no oil crisis, no problem in the West, we could perhaps put up with this. I ask parents whose instinctive response to their own hardship when they meet good times is to pamper their children to remember that we are in for a less good time. It is always comfortable and easy to move into a higher standard of living. But I believe we are lucky if we make in the next five years—nobody can look beyond three to five years—somewhere between 3–5%, maybe with luck 6%, growth in real terms.I will give you another illustration. We had some workers doing training in Japan in miniature ball bearings. After one month, they said, ‘What’s this? I am still doing the same job.’ So, the Economic Development Board (EDB) went out to investigate why they were being held back. The answer was simple. This is a precision job and it had to be done to perfection and they just did not know how important it is that even if you have only one out of a group of 30 or 40 ball bearings which is not the right size, the wear and tear will be uneven and there will be not only damages to be paid. Worse, the brand will lose its reputation and sales will go down.It reminded me of an incident I had some 11 years ago when I was touring some Third World group of countries. There was this Chinese restaurant thousands of miles away from Singapore. A Singapore Chinese had opened a restaurant there and he invited the whole chartered aircraft to his restaurant for dinner. I said to him, ‘The food wasn’t bad. Who is the cook?’ He said, ‘Oh, it is a Singapore Chinese cook.’ I said, ‘What about the locals, can’t they cook?’ He laughed and said, ‘Well, you know, it is very difficult. You take the simple dish foo-yong hai. It is an omelette. You add some vegetables, you add some prawns, crab. But you show it to him three times and he says, “I know,” but he doesn’t know. I tell him watch again. You have got to add this amount of water to the egg so that it won’t be too hard. Then you’ve got to have the vegetables sufficiently cooked but still crisp. Then you must add the right salt and pepper and sugar and other condiments. He says, “I know,” but it is not edible. You lose business.’ We are like that, ‘Yes, I know’ when in fact you don’t know.The growth that we have made has carried us up to a pretty high level com- pared to what was, not compared to what the Japanese and the Europeans or the Americans have. And to make the next jump is a qualitative change. We made this first run-up by just starting from a low baseline, mopping up the unemployment, doing mostly assembly-line operations. Then, we moved on to polishing lenses, making theodolites and balancing instruments and so on. This year, we are getting only about a third of the investments committed or promised compared to the number we had last year. But they are good investments—in precision engineering, aircraft spare parts, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals. And it means training, skills. It means that if you want to do your children good, make sure they don’t lose the work ethic. Whether it is the Confucian work ethic, whether it is the Hindu work ethic, whether it is the Muslim work ethic, whether it is the Protestant work ethic, if you don’t work, you are not going to make the grade and no amount of wizardry on the part of the EDB or the Ministry of Finance is going to pull this one off.In the last ten years, we hitched a ride as the world bounced away at about 10% a year growth in world trade up till 1973. It took a nosedive in 1974, it is not quite recovered in 1975. But we managed with the momentum of eight years behind us to ride through 1973 and 1974.Now, it is going to be different. The oil crisis with prices quintupling plus a further problem of getting a new regional balance established with the new governments in Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia which in turn will depend on the balance of forces between America, the Soviet Union and China. It is going to take two years to know how the interaction of these world powers will be and, in particular, the contest for influence over the Indo-Chinese states, which means that cooperation in Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) on the economic and the political fields must become a sincere effort to try and accommodate each other in order that by being a more cohesive group we can deal with a group of countries with different political and economic systems on more or less equal terms.It is the need to be realistic that is paramount. It is better for the government to take the tenth anniversary celebrations to cap the successes of the last ten years in undiluted self-congratulation. It is the easier way out but it is not the best way for- wards. We have done as well as we could possibly have done in the past ten years. To do as well as we can in the next five years, let us have no scales on our eyes. Let us face the world as we find it, as we find the other countries, as we will find ourselves. And if we are to overcome these problems, many of them will depend on our own internal thrust, the drive that we have got, the capacity to face up to our problems before they become too big and too unmanageable whether it is in cars or in babies.If you listen to the gossip, everybody is unhappy about Area Licensing and the Restricted Zone. This we expected. But which would you have—a serious attempt made to put our traffic into some semblance of order and get people and goods circulating or a cease-up and with it your whole economic life or part of it strangulated? And it will be solved. It is not comfortable whilst it is being solved because if you have got used to driving your own car from door to door, catching a bus is not as comfortable. But it is necessary, part of the price we have to pay. It will get better when we get more buses and by about 1977, 1978 we should get a decent bus system and eventually in 10, perhaps 12 years, we will have to have a mass rapid transport system.So too with the babies. If you take them at the reproductive rate, what they call the Selective Reproduction Rate, they frighten me when you take each age group— 15 to 19, then 20 to 25, 25 to 30. At 1966 rates of production, the number of babies that would have been born last year would have been 78,000. Fortunately, the numbers born last year were only 43,000. But we are still very far from just reproducing ourselves. It has got to go down until we just reproduce ourselves or we are in for very big trouble—unsolvable problems. We read of coups, takeovers. You know, Nigeria is a wealthy country. But if you go to Lagos, oil notwithstanding, you know why you have got a coup.And I believe that the response of the Singaporeans to our problems of population control or cars is an indication of our basically resilient and disciplined society. It can make it but it has got to be told what the alternatives are. And the alter- natives are truly unpleasant. If you read what is happening in Hong Kong, you also know.So, if you want to do good to your children, don’t pamper them. Just because you had a hard life, you have got the discipline, you have got the thrift, you have got the industry, you shower on them what you didn’t have. It is a different world. In many respects, it is a better world. I much prefer this to what we had in 1965. There is now the sufficient infrastructure. But to make that next qualitative jump means a really big effort and one which you have to make yourself because you cannot expect the schools with pupils on an average to 1 teacher to do for your children what you have to do yourselves—nurture them, imbue them with the right attitudes of life, to work and the necessary self-discipline.The last ten years have been almost too fast in its speed of change. And anyway, I sometimes regret that we did not get a harder knock in 1974 which Hong Kong had with 30% of its work force at least unemployed and most of it taking 30%, 40% reduction in wages and real hardship. I am not saying it is a good thing but I am saying that it is good for the soul. And employers when they start looking for workers like to have workers who know what hardship means. And if you can’t have real hardship, then you have got to inculcate right attitudes and values. We will do all we can as a government in the schools, in getting the jobs and training them. But if you bring a child into this world and you don’t bring it up right, then the ultimate responsibility must be yours.And I hope that we shall together make the next five years at least not less successful than the last one-and-three-quarter years since we ran into the oil crisis. If it is no worse than what it has been and better than what it has actually been up till now, at the end of another five years we will be all right. But it requires that constant drive and that willingness to learn, to achieve and to be proud of what you are doing, not just minimum of effort, maximum of monetary rewards. That attitude will never take us into the industrial society.My good wishes to all of you on this tenth anniversary.