URGING A ‘RATIONAL THINKING POPULATION’ TO ADJUST TO NEW REALITIESSpeech at the 12th National Day Rally Held at the National Theatre (13 August, 1977)Friends and Fellow Citizens:This is the 12th occasion since 1965 and every year, we have been lucky. I touch wood each time I say that because each time it looks as if it’s going to get much tougher, much harder. In 1965, we had a hungry population and high unemployment. The per capita income then was below US$1,000, round about US$700 to US$800. As we solve old problems, new ones emerge. I am not saying it is bad to solve old problems—otherwise, we would be in a big jam, with employment, slums, and then riots.The per capita income has gone up to over US$2,500 last year which raises new difficulties. These are difficulties we must anticipate. If we fail, we begin to go down and, of course, we won’t face what I am going to explain to you.I believe we have got a population that keeps on trying. We will strive and we will make 4, 5, 6, 7, maybe 8% growth. Then, in five years, we are going to clear the US$3,000 per capita mark.The World Bank has a simple rule of thumb—below US$1,000, you are a developing country; beyond or above US$1,000 per capita, you are in transition towards developed. They have made these guidelines because they are short of money since the oil crisis. So, they have concentrated on the least developed countries—those below US$200. At first, those below US$100 per capita per annum; now, they say US$200 because of the inflation of the US dollar. There are about 40 such countries.Let me explain some of the consequences of this. First, neither the World Bank nor the Asian Development Bank is going to give us any concessions whether we are going to develop a Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) or an airport, whatever it is. We will borrow at the going rate—no concessions.Recently, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) wants to promote us from a donee country in receipt of special concessions to a donor country to join the industrial countries and help the developing countries. So we said, ‘Look, please be careful. We are not really in that class.’ The problem has not been solved.The issue has arisen in a simple way. As a member of the IMF, we have what is called a tranche—a deposit which we put and which depends upon the allocations to us of our quota. Part of that tranche is in gold and, now, they are selling the gold at market prices. When we bought it and put with the IMF, it was then $35 per troy ounce; now it is selling at $145 to $146. So, the difference they are going to take and help the developing countries. They say, ‘This is not a very big sum, a few million dollars.’ It is not the sum involved—it’s the principle involved. Once we are promoted into the donor class, that’s big trouble because this is hard-earned money.One simple argument is this is per capita per annum on borrowed capital, borrowed technology, foreign marketing and export of dividends. They say, ‘All right, we will knock off 20% for that.’ That leaves us with US$2,000 per capita. That’s not a very great help. But when we clear US$3,000 in real value, then the real problem will start.So, I want to alert you it’s going to get tougher. It is like mountaineering—the higher you climb, the more exhilarating it is but the tougher it is to climb up higher because there is less oxygen in the air. This makes me come to my next point, namely, the expectations of our young, expectations which par- ents encourage. It is all right to set your sights high. Work hard, get a good education, reach out for the stars. But settle for what you can be—not everybody is going to be an astronaut. And what’s more, settle for the jobs that are going and not the jobs that you think ought to be there.I want to explain why I believe it is safer to lower our expectations. There is unemployment in the industrial countries: Western Europe, America, Australia, New Zealand. So, they take protective measures. And when there is unemployment, pressures are on. These are governments running [the] ‘one-man-one-vote’ system. The pressure is on to cut out imports. And it is a vicious cycle because it means a slowdown in world trade. So, instead of getting cheap shoes, garments, raincoats, pocket calculators, television sets, you have expensive ones and the world is poorer off. But everybody believes that only he should be allowed to cut down his unemployment by holding off imports temporarily because his is a special case. The result is a round robin of restrictive measures that blocks trade and it is a subject of considerable concern the world over.They put the squeeze on the Japanese. Mr. Fukuda is a very experienced and a very able man and he explained his Japanese position most eloquently. The world faces one of the most difficult periods in the history of men. His words are not far from the real truth. The last time it went wrong in 1933, it led to fascism in Europe and its counterpart in the Far East and the Second World War; this time it goes wrong, it is catastrophe.We can’t do much about that. Whether there is going to be a settlement in the Middle East, whether there is going to be more troubles leading to oil embargoes or increase in the price of oil, it is outside our control. But we must realise that in this state of uncertainty, industrialists in developed countries like America, Western Europe and Japan are not investing in capital goods. Somehow, that element of confidence has not returned; this means every time you have a short spurt of recovery, it’s a consumer-led recovery. It does not lead to more capital investment, more production, more consumption—it stalls.Well, in this kind of a climate, just lower our expectations when it comes to the kind of jobs we are doing. This year, the government’s representative on the Wages Council pressed this point of view—that in this period of uncertainty when we are not getting the input of new investments that keeps on raising or bringing up the level of technology and, therefore, the value-added per worker within each factory, we better go slow on wages. It’s expansion of existing technology and existing factories that we must depend on for many jobs like Sumitomo Petrochemicals. It will create 4,000 jobs when the factory is being built; after it is built, it will employ only 2,000 people but all highly skilled technicians and chemists. That’s what you call ‘high-value-added’—a capital investment which can go for as much as nearly $2,000 million employing only 2,000 people. So, it can pay high wages.I am not at all sure that we can have more of this because there is excess capacity in so many areas including, at the moment, petrochemicals.The Japanese factories are working at slightly under 70% of capacity. We hope, by the time the one in Singapore is in production in 1981, world recovery plus normal expansion of demand, they would have reached a 100% capacity. Therefore, when looking for jobs, let’s not be too difficult. We started the ‘Use Your Hands’ campaign last year; it will make a dent over five, seven, or nine years.But we can see a pattern emerging. We are becoming a little bit like what’s happening in Western Europe, including Britain, where people don’t want to do what they consider jobs not equal to their status, socially not desirable jobs, even though they pay well. And, therefore, the work permit phenomenon is not a temporary one. The British brought in about a million West Indians, Indians and Pakistanis; the Germans have abouttwo million Turks and Yugoslavs. And the strange part is in spite of recession and unemployment, it is still the West Indians and the Pakistanis doing certain jobs in Britain and the Turks and the Yugoslavs doing certain jobs in Germany.Maybe we are already trapped in that kind of a bind. However, I refuse to admit that the Singaporean can get snobbish so quickly. But the signs are that he has gone that way. It’s a combination of the soft line plus a little bit of shrewdness or low cunning. Every construction site, this is a rough rule of thumb, when the building is going up, the outdoor works are all done by work permit holders except for the old ones. That is a safe rule of thumb. When the building is completed, then our boys, who have been trained in our Ponggol Vocational Institute and other training centres will come in and put in the wiring, the wash basin, the tiles, the plumbing. He is already covered, not subject to sun and rain; he is more comfortable. Never mind how much the other fellow gets because he is not really that hungry any more. It is quite a combination of creature comforts plus, of course, the inconvenience of either working with a safety belt on or risking falling off the scaffolding. So, he waits till that’s all over and he goes into the solid structure.We’ve got that kind of a situation. They can fail the primary six three times. You give them $200 to be a domestic help, no takers. But $150 or even a $140 for apprenticeship plus tea breaks and other perks, they accept because there is the expectation of climbing up the social ladder and the social life that goes with it.Then, we have to adjust. If that is so, then our work permit phenomenon is a permanent one. We will have an annual intake, which will be permanent, of so many thousands of healthy, striving, often because they are hungry, types. They, having stayed here five years, can be expected to marry a Singaporean and add to your population. There is, logically, no other way. At the same time, we must also lower our birth rate in order to absorb foreign workers on a permanent basis.This is a tentative conclusion. We will watch the figures over the next three to four years and if they show this persistent pattern, the choice of work, then the adjustments have to be made.Finally, may I say that one redeeming feature of Singapore is that it responds. It responds to the challenge, it responds to the exhortation. And it takes note, it makes adjustments. As we begin to change the priorities and the incentives, people change in their choices.I am convinced that more than half the reason why we have succeeded, why we continue to succeed in spite of the oil crisis is that we have got basically a rational thinking population. If they can get away with it, they will. You give them half a chance, they will. On the whole, they understand. People understand certain things have to be done. And firm, stable, just and orderly government is the first requisite for our continued survival and our continued prosperity.And on that note, I wish you another happy, prosperous and successful year.