LANGUAGE AND THE VALUE SYSTEM IT CAN TRANSMIT Speech at National Day Rally Held at the National Theatre Friends and Fellow Citizens:Ten years from now—I will be 64, coming to 65 if I am around—I’d like to sit back and hear somebody expound why he is doing what he is doing, why it is good for the country and carry the majority of each language group. That is the business of government, a very complex thing in Singapore and a very difficult business it is to find people first, willing and second, able to do this. You think they are able, they are not willing. They are willing, you try them. Sometimes, something is missing; it can’t be helped. You won’t know until you have thrown him into the deep end of the pool; then only you know.But the whole of this last 13 years has depended upon an interaction between people and the leadership, the organisation which has to be built up to mobilise people and put them to constructive endeavour. Now, the problem of continuity under different circumstances.In 1988, Singapore won’t be facing the problems we faced in 1968—British bases withdrew, conversion of war properties into civilian use. I don’t really know what kind of world it will be in 1988 but I do know unless you’ve got a population that is well-educated, well-informed, well knit into a cohesive, integrated community, it cannot maintain this momentum.And so, we come back to the problem of education, a most complex series of puzzles. If I knew as much today ten years ago, so many errors could have been avoided. You see, we were trying something which was very difficult. And, perhaps, you’ll forgive me if I personalise what I want to explain; then, you will understand what is it we are trying to achieve.I will summarise in five minutes what I have observed over 30, 40 years, the difference between a Chinese-educated and an English-educated student. They are different now because the schools have changed, the teachers are different, textbooks have changed but I am now talking of 20, 30, 40 years ago—one has a complete value system of his own.Before I proceed, let me tell all Malays, all Indians what I say goes mutatis mutandis in varying circumstances for Malays, for Indians and others. Each one of us has come out with a different set of inherited cultural values and as we move into the English language, what I am trying to do apply just as much to the Malay and to the Indian or Ceylonese or whatever.One has a sense of purpose—a total value system, total cultural system. The textbooks, the teachers were the products of 200 to 300 years of revulsion, disgust at the ineptitude of successive Chinese emperors and empress dowager and foreign domination. And it threw up the 1911 Revolution long before the communists and the textbooks and the teachers that came down with it had a sense of social purpose. And society takes first precedence over everything else. The result was a very dynamic student—he is able to organise his own picnics, he can organise strikes, he can fix bombs, he can bump people off. The communists got them to do this.But the revolution really started in 1911 against foreign domination—that was the good part of it, the desire for social unity and cohesion without which nothing is achieved. And, I say, without that, Singapore would not have made it. If there wasn’t this thrust, we couldn’t have made it in the last 13 years. It was this willingness to sacrifice.Now, we have changed. English is valuable. I don’t regret it; I think it had to happen. But I am worried.So, I asked the teachers, I said, ‘Give me a list of all those who have got first- class honours or upper seconds’. Nineteen thousand teachers and we’ve got four first-class honours: one University of Singapore, 1971 in physics and three Nanyang. Speaking from memory—1970, 1972, 1975—mathematics, physics and Chinese language and literature. I looked at the two ones: 270 upper seconds, one-quarter University of Singapore, three-quarters Nanyang. Why? Because the University of Singapore graduates opted out so grade for grade, job for job, because the Chinese language has not got the same marketable value, you’ve got higher talent in the job. And I have noticed this. I don’t need to carry out a survey. I first noticed it from just personal observation; I called for the figures, it confirmed my observation.What do we do? Ideally, I want to do what I have done in the schools; what I have done, succeeded in doing for three of my children. I don’t ask people to do things which I don’t do myself—I know it works. I sent them to Chinese school where they learnt a philosophy, a complete culture system. I made sure they had enough English so that they would master science, technology and understand the scientific approach, the search for universal scientific truth and its application which is the reason why the West—first Europe, then America, then Japan—is way out in front. There is none of this obscurantism, mysticism, superstitions. It’s the search for truth, hard truth, the scientific approach.What was done was Chinese teachers and the home. Now, what we are trying are Chinese-language teachers, English-language teachers. But there is no coordination—each is giving a system down into the pupil. It is the system being tried out on the pupil instead of having a teacher who is already a product. The ideal, of course, is to have many who have been brought up like my children and say, ‘Now, duplicate, triplicate 19,000 of them’. Then, we have solved the system because they have been through it, they know exactly what was relevant in the Chinese system, what was relevant in the English-language system. That is what you give to the children. Simple, but it is very difficult because these are the ones who have gone out of education; they are not in education. Now, we’ve got to bring a whole team and I have got Dr. Goh to bring a whole team to go into education. Finally, there isn’t— I had to bring an outside task force to attack this problem.Let me repeat how it is to be solved. The blend or the fusion should have taken place in the teachers, then the teachers transmit it, it’s stabilised. Then, you know Chinese first language, you can give so much; English second language, you can give this much. Or vice-versa, English first language so much; Chinese second language so much or Malay or Tamil or what have you. But no, there are two separate sets of teachers, one does not care what the other side is doing and they are just pouring it in here [indicating head]. So, everybody gets private tutors for his child and private tuition is a way of life for teachers and parents and children. Now, any education system which has to have private tuition for hours and hours, two to three hours every day, to support a child is defective. Anybody could have told us but we were so busy—first, trying to make Singapore survive, make a living; then, at the same time, build up the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF); then, build up the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We left these things to the experts. It is only when we got the products of the experts in National Service that we decided no, there must be something wrong with the experts and we discovered that there were very few experts.Can it be done? I say yes, but let us work out a system which will fit the average. In the present system, only the bright rise above all the overload and break through and the average give up. So, we come back to talent.Why Dr. Goh? He is not an educationist but he has a brain he makes use of and, of course, he has collected most of the bright officers in his ministry. So, let us take them out, eight to a dozen of them Chinese stream, English stream, most of them engineers, returned scholars. But one simple thing I have learnt in life— never mind what the speciality is. Finally, does the brain think logically? Does the observation—is it objective, accurate? Are the experiments carried out in a prudent way, results cross-checked? And we will find the answer. But it will take years, maybe two to three years, to work out the basic system, how to stabilise it.The problem is less with the other languages. You take Malay-English. I had these figures, I am speaking from memory, but one-third of the Malay teachers have got a P4 in the second language, English or Malay, a P6, sorry. And there is no problem—the teacher knows just how much the student can take because the teacher has gone through the system and she knows this is a bright student and can take more, this is an average student, well, this is as much as he can take. But there are no such persons, very fewsuch persons, in the Chinese-English combination.How do we stabilise it? Why do I want this? I will be brutal and frank—it is not for sentimental reasons. I don’t have to pander to chauvinist sentiments and I don’t, as a matter of principle. But I say a person who gets deculturalised, and I nearly was so I know this danger, he loses his self-confidence. You get a sense of deprivation. For optimal performance, a man must know himself, know the world; he must know where he stands. I may speak the English language better than I speak the Chinese language because I learnt English early in life. But I’ll never be an Englishman in a thousand generations and I have not got the Western value system inside; it’s an Eastern value system. But I use Western concepts, Western words because I under- stand it. But I also have a different system in my mind. And I’ll give you, in a vivid way, how it works—the self-confidence, the guts, the gusto, the gumption.Every time there used to be a riot in Singapore, there was hilarious laughter and fun and games at the University of Singapore. I was amazed. There was a light-headedness because they did not understand that this was real revolution—1950s, 1960s. I watched it in total and utter amazement. In Nanyang, they were making the revolution. There was no fun and games. When I went there, they barracked me and they put the heat on me. I watch a revolution in the making in the hands of a few student manipulators behind who were very tough men. I have seen them carry out an operation at the Gay World where students barked orders into microphone and school by school trooped out into their buses and dispersed. They got principals to go up to the stage to witness the oath taking of their students union, principals who were terrified out of their lives. That is the quality of the organisation, the goal. And it is the same cultural push.Now, I don’t want any of that direction. But without that goal, we will never make it. Let me very briefly tell you this. I was a student in Britain for four years. There was a place called the China Institute. If you are of Chinese descent, wherever you come from, you can go to that club free. It’s the Boxer Indemnity Fund and you will get cheap food there, cheap tea. And I watched them come from all over the world: Chinese from China, Chinese from Mauritius, Chinese from the Caribbean.I didn’t know there were so many but they were all different. And after a while, you could tell a Singapore Chinese or the Malayan Chinese just by the way they walked and the way they dressed. Each has a style.As I came back and I watched, having become very sensitive to these matters, I realised the meaning of a value system and I inducted the value system via the English language, comparing the English text and the Chinese as I studied it and understood the way of life.My children haven’t got that sense of deprivation; they were never placed in that position. They will never understand me when I tell them this but I watched them. It requires great strength to keep a crew cut in a university where everybody has got long shoulder length hair so when my son went in 1971, I waited to see what would happen. I never discussed with him. I waited six months, one year; he sent his pictures, still short hair. Quite remarkable, probably the only one in the whole university of some 10,000 people! Five years later, his brother went, also short hair. After a year, picture came home, still short hair. You see, he has a total value system— I am me, I have come to learn your science, your technology and how you have made this breakthrough into industrial production and into a technological life. I have not come here to have long hair, wear dirty jeans, walk about barefooted, wear T-shirts with strange slogans printed on them. That’s got nothing to do with what you have done in outer space.And they are able to do that because there were two value systems—there was the moral modulator and we must contrive, we must find the way to get this established in the first 500 or first 1,000 teachers on whom we can build. There are today, probably about 50 who would qualify under that . . . and they are not teaching, they are in the ministry because they are the brighter ones.And this is the paradox of bilingualism—the brighter you are, the easier it is and for the average, you must simplify. You must know what is it, how he can digest and predigest it. Today, we are giving them two direct systems, no interrelation between one and the other, no explanation that if you say this . . . Now, in Chinese, say, ‘Did you sleep well?’ So, I translated, ‘Did you sleep well?’ But my daughter says, ‘No, don’t say that; say, “Shui de zhao ma? ”’ So, you say it in the reverse way. So I said, ‘Yes, I must make a mental note of that’. But somebody has already done all that in Stanford, in Yale, in Harvard, in Beijing, in Taiwan—just buy the material, abstract what is relevant, get the textbooks done and do this simplified. The way I have done it, it is as if I have compiled my own dictionary—words and phrases, how to say [in] reverse order. And it can be done.And the value system, I am not saying with the language, you necessarily get the value system—no. But the chances are it will help and without that value system, I am quite fearful that we will lose this thrust. It is the value systems—what is right, what is wrong. You take the Western value system—‘It is my fundamental right as a citizen. Under the Constitution, I am guaranteed all these things; now, give me. If you haven’t given me, I’ll vote you out’. Whether the chap who is voted in will give it to him doesn’t matter; wait and see.But the Chinese ethical system is a different one—you owe certain obligations to society. Mind you, when I say this, I am talking about the traditional classical value system; I am not talking of the system today in China. There are completely different systems today in China, in Hong Kong, in Taiwan and what we are trying in Singapore; it is entirely differ- ent. We are in Southeast Asian context; we are trying to extract what is relevant. And I say relationship between . . . Well, Confucius says, ‘jun jun, chen chen, fu fu, zi zi’ . . . Between government and people, father and son, brothers and sisters, friends—they are important, fundamental relationships, your obligation to society. And if that is programmed early from the age of six in school, you’ve got good citizens; if that’s not programmed, you have a motley crowd.The performance of any society depends on the social and cultural values of that society, its leadership, the organisation and the interaction between government [and] people in meeting problems.Each time the yen goes up or the Deutsche mark goes up, it is a vote of confidence by the bankers and money brokers that the Japanese society and the German society—the government, the culture, the people, the unions—can make that adjustment and overcome their difficulties. That’s what it comes to. It simply means that. It doesn’t mean that the Japanese is superior or the German is superior—it means the way in which that society is organised enables the people as a whole to surmount the difficulties. They make the effort. Japanese firms go bankrupt, they are wiped off; they reintegrate, they move into new fields. They get blocked—colour television, they say, ‘Right, move colour television to Korea and Taiwan’. They move into videotape recorders (VTR), Sony, the best—see the TV you like at the time you like. MITI, Ministry of International Trade and Industry, Mitsubishi, Mitsui—thousands of Japanese all round the world taking notes and calculating and comparing notes and saying, ‘Yes, yes, this is the area for growth, this is the area for restriction, troubles with dumping laws and so on, hive it off to Korea, Taiwan, even Singapore. We move into videotape recorders, move into computers’. It is the nature of the system, just like the Germans.How simply do we continue this performance? How does it apply to us? It’s people, government, organisation, management, unions—the total culture system and we’ve developed our own, in many respects quite superior to the original, in some respects latent flaws which may stymie us. Good points: hardworking, triers, willing to have a go. Blocked? Think of another way, never give up. Part of the immigrant philosophy—having left your home, you have just got to make good to justify having abandoned your home, a valuable positive factor. Weakness—with success, very modest success but a little bit too fast, comes the complacency that grows out of ignorance. Yes, we are all right, maybe barring a major international recession three, four, five years. But the way we have deployed our talent is frightening— limited numbers, 40 to 50 to 60 scholars and not one took up education. There should have at least been one each year in education. So, we have a coterie of 20 very able, stable minds monitoring, adjusting the education system. [But] no, everybody wants to do engineering or medicine—no spread of talent.And this performance depends on education, the people, leadership. And it is the leadership which must be sorted out within five to ten years.It’s a different generation and we have to accept it as a fact. They didn’t go through the Japanese Occupation, they didn’t have the near misses of communist dominance; not the same privation and the fact that we have now built up a private sector which is taking in two-thirds of all our graduates. Twenty years ago, the government was the most important employer of graduates; today, the government and all the statutory boards put together employs a minority and the private sector has just taken off. Whether it is ministers, whether it is top administrators, I think we’ve just got to face up to the fact that the next generation is different. We cannot expect them to say, ‘I will continue with this because it is my duty’. If their loss is too great, they will say, ‘Right, never mind the pension, I am off’, or ‘I don’t want to be a minister’. This means a careful assessment of what the private sector is paying. We know it from the income tax statistical returns, refine it and recreate the whole career curve so that the sacrifice is not that much.I do this because it is a sense of . . . maybe it’s habit, maybe I have to because if I don’t, who is going to hold this and enable the financial centre to expand so that the lawyers can do debentures and argue about the meaning of debentures and get $40,000, $50,000, $60,000, $70,000, $80,000 a month? So, I sit back and think, ‘No, no, this whole thing will collapse’. But the others say, ‘Fine, you are doing it, please carry on’. It cannot go on; it has to be revamped or we will face the same kind of dead end position which some countries have faced.In the course of the next 1 year 18 months, definitely whilst we have the time to put things right, we’ve got to get the adjustments made. These are fundamental adjustments to take into account the fact that the private sector now sets the pace. It’s a bigger sector; the bright students are still with us for the first five to eight years of their bond. They have acquired the experience and unless we can . . . We don’t want to keep all of them. In fact, it’s bad for Singapore for all the bright ones to be in the public sector. We want one half, two-thirds out in the private sector but we need the brightest of the one-third to man the key positions because these are the centres where you decide policy and you decide the course events will take.Finally, may I wish you another, I hope, quiet year of advance, progress, consolidation. It’s a problem now of how to ensure that the same system will have inbuilt flexibility to adapt, to adjust, expand and meet new situations, absorb new talent, test and temper in the hard school of experience. Then, alone comes judgement and it is judgement not of me alone but of a whole series of people who have been working with me that’s got Singapore where it is today. We know certain things have to be done; you have got to judge the right time, get it done and carry the people with you.