FROM TALENT PYRAMID TO EXPERTISE PYRAMID AND IMPROVING ITSpeech at the National Day Rally held at the National Theatre (19 August 1979)Friends and Fellow Citizens:Nine years from now, I hope whoever has to do this job does not have to use four languages—it is an impossible imposition, an unnecessary one. We should resolve it; we can resolve it. We cannot only use one language but we should be able to get by with two and if whoever in charge can speak an extra one, three, that’s a bonus.Our whole economic future depends on our educational standards, the levels of skills and standards of professional competence we can attain which, in turn, depend on our language competence. I am sanguine and confident that if we could make it in the last 14 years when most of our students were from Chinese-medium schools, Malay-medium schools, some even from Tamil secondary medium schools like Umar Pulavar, if we could still make it to the polytechnic and the university to learn the sciences even though we did not speak standard English, then we can improve on the past now that the majority are in English schools. But don’t overload the child with dialects—it is a real burden.Ten years ago, I would repeat in each language all I have been saying spreading over four languages; now I find it too burdensome. And it is quite unnecessary. What is the profit of being able to read the Chinese character in two pronunciations: one in Mandarin, one in Hokkien? Worse, I have to think each time of different idioms and phrases.It is crucial that we reduce the burden of languages. Let me recount my recent experience in Mauritius. It was a revelation—they learn three languages in school and speak dialect most of the time! Before independence, they had learnt only two languages: French and English. The British took it over from the French in 1814 after the Napoleonic Wars and promised to continue teaching the French language. The people are 30% Creole or African-French mixed descent, 60% Indian, 3% Franco- Mauritian which means French descent, 3% Chinese—Cantonese and Hakka, half Cantonese half Hakka—and a few others. Most of the time, they speak Creole. What is Creole? It is what the Africans, who were brought over as slaves, have made of the French language. It is French words, African pronunciation and African gram- mar. There are language experts in Britain and in America who have studied the language and concluded that they speak almost the same Creole as in Guadeloupe and Martinique in the Caribbean. Obviously, whatever the African dialects that affected the pronunciation of French words and provided the grammar were com- mon to these islands in the Indian Ocean and in the Caribbean.Two-thirds of the day is spent speaking Creole, the educated talk to each other in French which is the language of the cultivated [and] they carry out their adminis- tration in English. With independence in 1968, they have taught the mother tongue in schools: Hindi, Urdu, Mandarin . . . They now have an opposition party called ‘MMM’: Militant Mauritian Movement. They demand, ‘Make Creole an official lan- guage. Debate in it in parliament, spell it and print it in the newspapers’.I am grateful that our language problems are not that complex but let’s simplify them further. Every word that you have to use has to be in the storage bank. The stor- age capacity may be infinite—I read that I have ten billion neurons, that each neuron has multiple dendrites and that each dendrite is linked with other dendrites of other neurons. But let me tell you, and any man who is honest will tell you, that there is a limit to storing words for immediate recall. To use a word in speech you must have it in immediate recall. It will vary: 10,000 words for a genius, 5,000 for a bright man, the average perhaps 3,000. For bilingualism, multiply that by two to make 6,000. So you have to decide what other data you have to give up to use 6,000 words.As we go up this technological ladder, we just cannot waste our time messing around repeating the same knowledge in different languages. This is an acute problem not just for Singapore—it is a problem which on a continental scale faces Europe today. The European Economic Community (EEC) has 260 million people, more than the United States of America but they speak seven different languages. When their representatives meet in Strasbourg at the European Parliament they have interpreters. What an immense effort! I asked the EEC commissioners what they do when they meet. They said of the thirteen commissioners, only one, an Italian, doesn’t understand English. So he is given an interpreter and the meetings carry on in English; a running interpretation is given or whispered to the Italian. Thus, the work gets done.That’s the Singapore position. Let’s move and move swiftly into our com- mon working language. We have solved old problems in the 14 years; you can be sure that the problems ahead will be different qualitatively from what they were. It’s now one interdependent, interacting world. The Shah had to leave, Iran is in chaos. Production of oil goes down from six million barrels a day to three million. Sometimes it’s reported at four million; no one really knows. The oil companies, however, report that there is a 5% shortage between supply and demand—this is the reality of an interdependent one world.In the midst of all this uncertainty, you may ask me why did we agree to the National Wages Council (NWC) recommendation of $32 and 7% plus a 2% cess providing for the retirement, healthcare and housing needs of Singaporeans.for retraining? $32 plus 7% makes about 18% of the average semi-skilled worker’s wage of $250; plus 2% retraining cess it adds up to 20%. It’s deliberate, there is an element of risk. We therefore pushed 4% into the Central Provident Fund (CPF) and 2% to a retraining cess so that the worker doesn’t get used to spending this 6%—if things do go wrong, we have got 6% that can be taken back without the worker suffering.You have heard Dr. Goh. I’ve read him. All being well, this increase will be repeated this year and the year after. Over three years, we should have moved out from a low-wage and be moving towards a middle-wage economy. What’s the ratio- nale? First, what is the alternative? It is to carry on as we have been doing. We played safe after the oil crisis in 1973—we had 6%, 7%, 8% increases every year. This year, we could have had another 8% increase instead of making it 18% + 2% = 20%.Let me tell you the risks involved in carrying on as before. Last year, we had a record influx of work permit holders—over 20,000. At this rate, we can safely and accurately forecast further input of 20,000, perhaps 25,000 work permit hold- ers for 1980. In five years, you will have 120,000; in ten years, a quarter million— is it bearable? Maybe, if they were from our traditional sources—with Malaysians, there are minimal cultural and language problems. Last year, however, because there were not enough Malaysians, we started to move further afield and took work permit holders from Thailand, from Sri Lanka, from India, from Bangladesh. They are very good workers—they are hungry, they are lean, they are keen. The shipyards will tell you that they work harder than Singaporeans—they work better in the heat. But I have a responsibility to you; in ten years, can we digest so many? There will be cul- tural, linguistic, social and political problems.The risk of upping wages is the difficulties if we run into a recession. At pres- ent, the Economic Development Board (EDB) has got in the pipeline, $2 billion worth of investments on petrochemicals. Petrochemical Corporation of Singapore (PCS). Production is in 1982 it will provide only 2,000 jobs. That’s the kind of investment we want: high capital per worker, high value-added with intensive automation, meters, controlled pollution. They can pay good wages for chemical engineers, technicians, computer programmers and specialised and skilled workers.The EDB has also another $1.2 billion worth of investments that will provide 18,000 jobs over three, four years; they estimate [that] expansion of existing indus- tries will provide 17,000 jobs yearly for five years. So let’s take the plunge. It’s a risk but the other risk of not doing it is higher. The risk we are taking is a calculated one, an acceptable one and in case we run into a recession, we’ve got 4% CPF and 2% training cess, 6% put by to trim off. Next year, if we repeat it, we will put by 12%.Incidentally, it is part of the process of getting a younger generation to learn to make decisions. I was away when the NWC final acceptance was taken in the Cabinet; if I had been present, I would have pressed for another 1% from the worker for CPF. There are problems in giving people more money earlier than they need it.So far this year, January to July, the inflation has been about 2.5%; for July to December, we estimate a minimum of 3%, a maximum of 4.5%. A rough break- down: increase of oil prices will be responsible for 1.5%, bus fares, electricity, taxi fares, petrol diesel imports 0.5%, total 2%; NWC will cause a minimum of 1% and a maximum of 2.5%; if we had taken one more percent from the worker’s side and put it into CPF, then it will be 1–2% (caused by NWC). The worker will have less money to spend at the hawker centres and in the shops and he will save more for the future. In any case, the real increase in wages is 11%, that is, 18% less the maximum inflation of 7%. If the inflation is only 5.5%, then the increase in real wages will be 12.5%. Of that, 4% is in the CPF—net increase in real disposable income or real spending power is 7%. Not bad.Let me explain the problems if we don’t do this. Others have seen how Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Singapore have done it. Malaysia is industrialising and fast, that’s why we are now going as far afield as Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka for workers. True, Malaysians are paid more in Singapore but why should they come down when they have jobs at home?For example, seven years ago when I opened the National Trades Union Congress (NTUC) supermarket at Toa Payoh, I urged provision shopkeepers to pool their resources to set up supermarkets. They have not done so; as a result, because of smaller capital, higher overheads, et cetera, small shopkeepers find they cannot compete with supermarkets. Furthermore, they have to employ workers to deliver provisions to their customers. But where can they find such workers?In another seven years, our society will become like the advanced countries where personal service is rare and expensive. At present in the hawker centres, young hawker assistants will serve you. If our plan succeeds, and it must, then in seven years, when you go to a hawker centre, you may have to wait at the stall while the hawker prepares your food then carry your food to the table—self-service.How can it be otherwise? All the advanced countries find their labour too valuable for such services. Ten years ago, middle-income families had domestic servants; now they cannot find replacements. They offer $300 a month to young girls but few are interested—they prefer to work in factories for $250. It’s more convenient, there is more freedom, they have friends to chat with, life is more interesting. Presently, you can get Malaysians and Indonesians for domestic work; when, however, their industrial programme succeeds in five to seven years, you will not find such ready domestic help.Our methods are not secret—others can analyse and learn from us. After all, we learnt it from others. So more and more simple manufacture will move into these countries. Now, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh are wanting to do likewise. Not only will we be meeting competition from what are called NICs (newly industrialised countries) of East Asia, we will also meet competition from a group of developing countries moving in the wake of these NICs. What was wrong with Sri Lanka? Wrong politics and wrong policies—the administration went slack. Now, they are out to follow what others have successfully done; they will get the investments because they have educated workers. True, it’s not as good as if they were educated in English; they are educated in Sinhalese and Tamil.Let me explain the advantage of English. I was talking last year to an American manufacturer at dinner. His Singapore factory manufactures something called ‘constant speed drive’. In every jet engine, they need one of these machines—it controls the speed of the dynamo. When you ride a bicycle, the faster you go, the brighter the lamp becomes because the dynamo is spinning faster. This gadget makes it possible for the jet engine to turn faster whilst the electricity output remains constant. I asked him what happens if there is a recession, He said no worry of that—the number of aeroplanes on order means that there’ll be a demand for constant speed drives over the next five years and regardless of recessions. There is no danger of protection- ism because this is the only manufacturer in the world; even the Russians want to buy this to put in their jet engines. I asked him why he came to Singapore—he had studied Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. He said, ‘You speak English. I don’t want any messing around, making mistakes on millimetres, translating in the language. You either understand the instructions or you don’t. You speak English, your workers are good—I’m here’. That’s a fact of life. We have made the right decisions.Another reason why we took this risk is the good prospects for East and Southeast Asia. The American economy has had negative growth rates for one quarter; it is expected this quarter too so that officially will become a recession. The Japanese will make 5% to 6%, the EEC will make 3% to 3.5% for this fiscal year. But regardless of how poorly the world economy may be doing, the ASEAN countries, our neighbours, have been making 8, 9% and the East Asian countries, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan, are buoyant; we are closely plugged in with them. Two of our neighbours, Malaysia and Indonesia, are oil exporters. Every time the price of oil goes up, their development plans can expand. So on balance, we should get by.But there is, of course, a problem, and I recognise it, for the small manufacturer. They are Singaporeans. Well, we are giving them three years to adjust. The changes are inevitable. If we don’t do this, upping wages whilst allowing work permit holders to come in, we could have done it the other way: leave wages to free play, to market forces and cut down on work permit holders; I believe wages will go up faster than the 20%. Between the two, it is better that we allow this inflow of workers—it will cause less dislocation than if we stopped the inflow and allowed free adjustment of wage rates. Singaporean employers in all sectors, manufacturing or sales and ser- vices, have to learn how to do with less labour: mechanise, automate, computerise, rationalise management, minimise the use of labour. In some industries, it is possible—they can see what has been done in Japan, in Korea, in Taiwan, in Hong Kong. The bright and the enterprising will survive either in Singapore or in Malaysia or in Indonesia. There is Batam waiting to be developed, there is Sri Lanka, Thailand [and] the Philippines.If we don’t move out of these export-sensitive items, and our manufacturers are by and large in the export-sensitive markets, we shall be constantly trapped by protectionist problems.Let’s move to more ‘constant speed drives’, micrometers, miniature ball-bearings; no one will give us problems in these products.Protectionism is no barrier. That’s our strategy—we move ahead or we are overtaken by events. The EDB has set up a local industry section to help our manufacturers but I urge them—don’t try and work it out from first principles; just see what has been done elsewhere especially in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Japan. If you can mechanise, the Japanese would have thought of a way and the Taiwanese would have adapted and adopted these methods. Study them. There is a strange streak in the Singaporean—he wants to start from first principles when he can learn from what has already happened elsewhere. The same principles are at work—the same cost of oil, the same cost of anti-pollution devices, the same available patents.The Ministries of Finance and of Trade and Industry are also formulating rapid depreciation rates for new plants and labour-saving machinery to ease this shift in labour-saving machines. Whether an industry stays in Singapore with rationalised management, better used labour and better automated machines or it has to go else- where will depend on open market forces. That is what, in fact, will happen, spread over three years. So rather than allow open market forces immediately to bring about this adjustment, we have upped wages but allowed continuous free inflow of work permit holders.We must achieve our maximum which means using the talent we have got to the maximum advantage. By way of illustration, a people can be represented graphically in a talent pyramid—people of different levels of skills and ability are found more at the lower levels, the layers becoming less the higher the skills and the ability. The higher the skills and knowledge, the fewer [the] talented. At the primary level, about 20% may not make it at the Primary School Leaving Examinations (PSLE); after four years of secondary education, there may be only 20% who make it to upper secondary. There may be only about 10% who pass pre-u two and go on to university or polytechnic or Institute of Education. We may be able to raise this by better education to 20% or 25%. What limits it? The absence of more talent . . .However, though we have the talent, it is useless if we have not given them the training and they have not acquired the expertise. The talent pyramid is our natural human resource determined by our genetic pool. It is through education and train- ing from pre-primary to technical schools to universities to research centres that we convert this talent pyramid to an expertise pyramid, the different layers of semi-skilled and skilled workers, technicians, managers, professionals and so on. The higher the expertise the less there are of them. It is this expertise pyramid which decides whatpeople do and produce with capital and technology and maximise them through trade and exchange in goods and services. This is what the Japanese have done— maximise conversion of their talent pyramid into expertise pyramid. No natural resources, 100 million Japanese compared with 900 million Chinese (with more mineral and power resources). Population, Japan is only one-tenth of China; land area, Japan is one-hundredth of China. I do not believe that the Japanese natural talent pyramid is inherently so superior; their cultural levels are also more or less the same, similar discipline and drive. What then makes for the difference in performance? The expertise pyramid, the result of social and administrative organisation, education and training and a social system which enables Japan to adapt to new situations quickly. Look at their productivity—it is the result of knowledge, know-how, organisation, skills, putting to maximum use the technology and the capital that they have through trade and links they have with the rest of the world. It will take China’s four modernisations well into the next century before she catches up; by then the Japanese would have gone on. It’s their realistic appraisal of themselves and maximising their human resources that enabled the Japanese to decide that they would concentrate on things like television sets and motorcars instead of jet engines and rockets.The British competed with the Americans for jet aircraft, the Comet versus the Boeing, and they lost; the VC-10 versus the DC-10 and they lost; meanwhile, they neglected television and cars. Now, Hitachi is going in with Rand to manufacture in Britain. Hitachi brings in TV technology to Britain! Honda brings in advanced motor- car technology to British Leylands! The difference springs from the differences of the capacity of each society in collectively making adjustments, to meet new situations.When I met Mr. Fukuda two years ago in Kuala Lumpur, August 1977, he explained to me that Japan had 13 critical industries, amongst them petrochemicals, textiles, shipbuilding and so on. They were calculating which one they could rationalise and salvage, which ones had to go. I believe they have made up their minds which ones have to go because we see a consistent pattern emerging—certain types of industries are moving into Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. These are better than what we have—we will be fools if we didn’t take them. They know we’ve got political stability, the good worker productivity and that we are in what I would term a ‘constructive syndrome’. You can be in a ‘destructive syndrome’; I’ve seen some countries caught in that bind. Revolution, riots because of unemployment, despair, dismay, governments toppled, problems unsolved, more revolution, more riots. Every time I visit such a country, I leave relieved that we escaped that syndrome. We have solved our basic problems of unemployment, little education, poor housing. We’ve got near full employment, housing, universal education. Now we are on a constructive track—better education, better skills, better jobs, better incomes, better health, better homes. Housing and Development Board (HDB) is putting up new generation flats. Old ones will be knocked down, new ones will be built. Housing and Urban Development Company (HUDC) will come out with new generation flats too. We go on upwards.We dared to achieve, we had the courage and the ability to make it. People wrote us off in 1965; they said no chance. We couldn’t accept that verdict. We decided to make it. Our people had the guts and gumption, the government provided practical policies; the combination worked. New problems areon the way; they can be solved, they will be solved. The nub of the problem is how to find new problem solvers because we are not indestructible; there comes a time when the baton must be handed over. Whilst new problems will be different, the wherewithal and the processes of solving them are the same. The quality of the population has not deteriorated; in fact, it’s improved. The talent pyramid is the same, the expertise pyramid is improving as levels of skills and edu- cation go up. I see a core of people who have got the ability, the intellectual grasp, the integrity and the drive. There are two things that have yet to be proven. One is the ability to communicate. They have got to learn this—to reduce complex problems into simple terms because they need to convince, to mobilise people behind their plans; then, they are away. It’s partly learnt, partly inborn.The other factor is what happens under crisis. There are two schools of thought. Dr. Goh once asked a Japanese general, ‘How do you find out whether a commander will stand up under fire?’ He wanted to find out of the commanders he’s got who will stand up and who will wilt. The general said, ‘There’s no way of knowing. Wait till the fire comes and you will know who are the ones who are cool and collected and whoare not. Sometimes, the ones you thought would be the calmest, the coolest and the most calculating under fire, they have cracked and the least promising have turned out to be the ones with the ballast, the calm, the detachment, the verve under pressure’. I do not accept that. That might have been true but look at Apollo 13—the Americans had to choose astronauts. Apollo 13 was the one that went to the moon and developed a fault. The three astronauts had only one chance—listen closely to ground control, preserve power, take one swing around the moon and come back. If they had missed it, they would have gone on forever and ever into outer space. If any one of the three had panicked, all three would have gone. The Americans must have found some means of testing men in pressure chambers, claustrophobic conditions, simulated real crisis conditions to cause fright and eliminated those who panicked because not one of the three panicked—Apollo 13 came back.If I can find the way to test men and can weed out the nervous and the jittery, you can safely bank on your future in Singapore long after this government has stood down. We are going to find them. I believe we have some of them. For any group of men, the achievement is to see their creation bloom and flourish. They must have the ability to select, to judge, to impart what has been learnt from experience and then say now the rest is up to you. There will be new problems but the basic factors at work are the same. The world is different. The economy is more complex and sophisticated but what makes a society tick, what gives a people the flexibility, the cohesiveness, the thrust, the dynamism, always seeking new ways to overcome new problems or problems, that’s as old as the beginning of man and the first tribes. That, I hope, will be the story of Singapore.