SINGAPORE’S VISION FOR THE 1980SBRACED FOR THE FUTUREIt is as well we have made the best of the last 20 years, when external world factors were favourable, to improve our internal conditions. A powerful American economy, with oil in plentiful supply and at low prices, enabled America and Europe to boom throughout the 1950s and 1960s with growth rates of over 6% and Japan at over 12%, per annum respectively. World trade bounced along at 8% to 10% per annum. So we, too, bounced along at over 10% growth per annum. We educated our children, improved their health, built homes, roads, power stations, factories, offices, hotels and shopping complexes. We improved our economic and social infrastructure. We are ready to reach out for higher levels of education, skills and productivity. Our soci- ety has greater cohesion and less conflict. A sense of unity binds us as the progress and prosperity our joint efforts have achieved are shared and enjoyed by all.We have never been better prepared for the future. Never have ministers and Members of Parliament (MPs) been closer to their ground. There are younger men in the Cabinet, in Parliament, in the Administrative Service, in the statutory boards, who are learning fast and will ensure continuity. We are ready for the turmoil of the 1980s.RESTRUCTURING TO MAKE US COMPLEMENTARY WITHIN THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (ASEAN), COMPETITIVE WORLDWIDEWe are restructuring our economy to be trimmer and so better able to meet the changed conditions in the 1980s. Let me give some examples of restructuring: After removing protective tariffs last years, three car assembly plants and one Bridgestone tyre factory closed down. They released 1,500 workers for other jobs. They are examples of Singaporean protectionism, which kept non-competitive industries alive and used men in wrong jobs. We could not compete against tyres manufactured in Malaysia, a natural rubber producer, because the technology and value added were not high enough to overcome our comparative disadvantage. It is in our economic interests to import tyres and use our labour on other products where our comparative advantage is greater because of higher education levels, higher skills, and the higher value added, like precision machinery and later, computer software.Put in another way, because our workers are better educated and better paid, it is not economical to use them to process pineapples, coffee seeds, tapioca and sago. The cleaning and processing of rubber has declined by half, and will decline further. Workers in sawn timber and sawn milling have gone down by half. A total of 4,500 workers in these trades in the last few years have been retrenched. More such low value-added jobs must be transferred out of Singapore.We need not compete with our neighbours to process agricultural or mineral products. Life is a dynamic and continuous process of change. If we cannot move upwards, we shall fall behind. It has always been thus for ancient tribes or modern nation states. Our economic strategy is to be complementary within ASEAN, to be competitive worldwide. Our future is in manufacturing to export in competition against all others in world markets. An even bigger future is in ‘brain services’, especially computer software.We did not see our way ahead clearly in industrial development in the early 1960s and early 1970s. We thought we were competing with Indonesia and Malaysia for industrialisation. Now, we know that there are enough different kinds of industries for all the five in ASEAN. In my recent discussions with the Malaysian prime minister, deputy prime minister, and minister for home affairs, I noted that, on their own, they had come to the same conclusions. They have the advantage in agricultural commodities, mining and metals. Singapore had to depend upon strategic location, infra- structure, accumulated expertise, and an open competitive environment for people and products. Market forces will make our natural advantage in strong economic and social infrastructure, complement ASEAN’s needs, for example, SKF manufacturing spare parts and replacements for textiles machinery to service the textile factories of the whole of South and Southeast Asia.JAPAN’S VISION OF THE 1980SFrom my observations, reading and experience, the nation most prepared for economic and political changes is Japan. Bereft of natural resources, the Japanese are well geared for structural changes to their economy, to maintain their people’s well- being and their nation’s responsibility in the world. Their one apparently ‘blind’ sector is security. They appear content to stay under America’s defence umbrella with modest increases in defence spending. In all other respects, in every other sector, they have rethought their problems and worked out new policies to meet changing circumstances.In June this year, a small team of our officers from the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) went to Tokyo to discuss the future with a group in Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and with other Japanese agencies. Their report to me made absorbing reading. The Japanese are not harking back to any idyllic Japan of sailing ships and samurais. For the 1980s, their agenda is energy conservation and energy alternatives to oil; strategy to overcome protectionism on steel, cars, electronic products by moving to creative knowledge industries. They are about 3% of the people of the world, about 0.3% of the world’s land area and 10% of the world’s gross national product (GNP). Hitherto they have done ‘reverse engineering’, that is, buy up new inventions, dismantle them, reverse the process to find out how it is done, then duplicate it; next, improve it. Now they are geared for ‘forward engineering’, innovative technology, to create new products. MITI’s vision of the 1980s is Japan as a technology based nation, a nation based on continuous acquisition and exploitation of new knowledge to serve the needs of men and societies.FRENCH PREPARING FOR A ‘TELEMATIQUE SOCIETY’Other nations are also probing the future and planning ahead. The French President recently commissioned two ‘Inspecteurs des Finances’, to study the future implications of the computer. These Inspecteurs are the top 10% of about 150 yearly graduates of their École Nationale d’Administration, an advanced school for the training of higher civil servants, the cream of French intellectual elite, similar or nearly similar to the Zhuang Yuan, the first on the triennial Mandarin Imperial Examinations list in Beijing, and the top 14 other names. Nora and Minc, the two Inspecteurs reported to Giscard d’Estaing, himself an Inspecteur des Finances, in January 1978, on the ‘telematique society’. It is a bold new word to describe the new age of computers. Just as the rail-road changed the course and structure of human settlements in the last century, so the computerisation of society will lead to new forms of working and new styles of life. People can stay where they like and be plugged through computers into the centres of government or industry, of social activities. The structure, the nature, the arrangements for work, residence and recreation of human societies will be totally altered. There will be a change in molecular structure of society, so to speak. The two inspectors warned that the American and the Japanese are well ahead in their Research and Development (R&D) of both the microchips and their endless uses in the factory, the home and throughout society. They urged the French to join and catch up with leaders in new discoveries and take over control of the inventions and the regulation of their users. Otherwise, they warned, the French will be supplied by, and hence under the control of, those who are the discoverers and the masters of these new inventions. For they will settle the regulation of their user, which will change the texture of the lives of people in France, Europe and the world. According to available figures, only two European companies, Siemens of Germany and Philips of Holland, have a significant research and development capacity, although their share of the world market is insignificant compared to the United States (US), 60%, and Japan, 23% of the semiconductor world market.DEATH WISH OF THOSE WHO STAY PUTYou can imagine how startled I was when I read two weeks ago that Britain’s Labour Party leader had supported his union leaders in their demands that the British Government protects British industry from foreign imports. They want to protect obsolescent industries in order to keep jobs for unproductive workers. These are union leaders who have fought to prevent newspapers from introducing computers into typesetting to save their jobs. They had temporarily closed down the newspaper, the London Times, and they will probably succeed in permanently closing down the Observer. They want the world to stand still for them. They are oblivious to the changing world.Surely, there is a lesson for us in these different responses to the challenge of change. Manchu China, under the Ching emperors, must have had this same death wish when they told the Western barbarians that their abundant Middle Kingdom, so full of every luxury, needed nothing from the West, and needed no lessons on how to live. The Japanese response to the challenges of Western technology in 1868 was the Meiji Restoration. They decided to reorganise feudal Japan in order to take in the new knowledge. They opened up Japan to trade and cultural intercourse. They learned, imitated and improved upon Western products. Now, in several fields, they are beginning to overtake the West. Japanese society is an illustration in Darwinian evolution, the survival of the more resilient social organism.SINGAPORE CAN LEARN FROM JAPANOne interesting exchange took place between our MTI team and the MITI team in Tokyo in June this year. Our team argued that we should not be classified as a newly industrialised country (NIC). We pointed out the differences between us and Korea or Taiwan. We had no large land area, no large population, no natural resources. The Japanese replied that they had noted and considered these points. Nevertheless, they thought it significant to point out that there were some common elements in our development, such as high growth, and not just in recent years, but accumulated over many years, in civilisation and culture which made us fit the description of NIC. They said that different people were placed in various kinds of environment; that considering our environment, one role open to us for the future is that of a centre of knowledge and information, similar to Tokyo’s role. To be such a centre, the Japanese believed reliability and trustworthiness of a people were most important.We have these two basic qualifications: reliability and trustworthiness. Our long tradition as an entrepôt centre has depended upon the merchant’s word as his bond. So we can find a place in the world’s network of information centres. We must work out our vision of the 1980s. On this same subject of information or data processing, I recall a fascinating discussion I had with a leading Japanese industrialist, the president of a large computer company. It was in Tokyo in October last year. He explained to me that what, in future, would check the expanding sale of computers was the costof the software. People, good at mathematics, must be found and trained to work out the systems and programmes to instruct the computer what to do. He had heard that our students had a natural bent for mathematics. He was delighted to discover that I was already a convert, that I had already known that the cost of computer hardware is getting lower and the cost of the soft- ware will be many times the cost of the hardware. Hence, I told him we were planning to teach computer science in our schools. He was also happy to know that the Japanese Government had agreed to help Singapore in setting up the Japan–Singapore Information Training Centre. There is an even widening field of cooperation between us and the Japanese. We understand their strengths, their teamwork, their dogged spirit. They know that we are serious students of industrialisation and modernisation and want to learn from them, from the Europeans and from the Americans.Before setting our vision of the 1980s, we must put right the work attitudes of our younger workers. And we shall. Then we can concentrate our minds and energies on acquiring the knowledge and expertise to be an information and knowledge centre. From our natural interest in mathematics and languages, we have good qualifications for computer software. Our competence in specialist and professional services will maximise the strategic location we already occupy in the international network of air and telecommunication services. We shall also complement, instead of competing with, our ASEAN partners whose potential is high on industries related to mining and metals, and agricultural products.The future beckons to those who are looking out for these signals. If we hark back to the past we shall miss these signals and we shall not find our way to the niche that is waiting for us.