DEFINITION AND SIGNIFICANCE OF PRODUCTIVITYSpeech at the National Day Cultural Show and Rally Held at the National Theatre (16 August 1981)Friends and fellow citizens:The figures in front of me for 1981 for the industrial countries show a decline in the gross national product (GNP)—of Britain by 1.5%, of France by 0.5%, West Germany by 1.5%. West Germany going down by 1.5% compared to last year, a pre- diction by Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The Americans will go up by 2.5%, the Japanese by 3.5%. So fortunately for us, because we took some bold decisions two-and-a-half years ago, we may escape this. Because all these countries with minus GNP and high unemployment rate—France, 7.5%; United Kingdom, 10.5%: Germany 4.75%—are going to put up tariffs. Maybe not the Germans, but you know that we’ve been facing troubles.So restructuring—moving out from low value-added products, products likely to meet tariff walls and quotas. If they must, how do we succeed? Two factors: one, better educated, better trained, better disciplined workers with higher skills, higher knowledge, better work attitudes. Second—and that leads to it—higher productivity.It’s a simple word, ‘productivity’. But I have had to spend several years grappling with this problem, to seize hold of the meaning, the significance of that— of a series of concepts embraced in that one simple word, ‘productivity’. It means you get more out of a work force with the same working hours. How do you get more? By more capital investment per worker—that’s how the Japanese have done it.And in the Japanese factory, a motor factory—I read the comparison recently—9,000 recommendations from the workers on how to improve the assembly line. And all they get is recognition—their photographs and acknowledgment.General Motors pays a few thousand dollars for each suggestion proposed, and they get 900 suggestions a year, of which half are adopted.So you see the difference in the motivation of the worker. He is always think- ing how he is going to do his job better. He is always making suggestions. It’s not the manager who can think up of these ideas because the managers are not manipulating the machines, they are not on the assembly line; it is the highly motivated and intelligent workers who then sit down with a group of three or four, either called quality control (QC) circles or zero-defect circles, and they work it out. And, of course, the management is also efficient.Our graduates—and I have got quite a lot of feedback from the employers’ associations whom I met recently—have paper qualifications. They are good engineers, they are good economists. They don’t like to go to the factory floor and soil their hands. They don’t know what happens on the factory floor. So how can they order more efficient work? Our economics graduates have no idea of personnel management, human industrial relations—social science graduates, whole lot. And so the Singapore National Employers Federation and the German business group in their submissions to the National Productivity Board suggested that part of the training during vacation is to send them to the offices and the factories. And more important, to send their teachers, the assistant professors and the professors—so that they will understand what is the product that they are expected to produce in the students, what is he supposed to perform. There is no dovetailing at the moment. And of course, all this should start from the schools—team spirit, team work—and this should start with the teachers.My meeting with the American, German, Japanese, and Singapore National Employers Federation which I am told is a group of British, Japanese, German and others, including Singaporeans, were most instructive. The most disturbing facet of my discussion, reading their submission—this was a care- fully considered, written submission—was that if we had to depend on Singapore entrepreneurs, we would not have today’s Singapore. It’s a damning admission for me as prime minister to tell you this. But I think you should know that.National Productivity Board: established in 1972 to improve productivity in all sectors of the economy.Rollei may have failed, but no Singapore firm could have run Rollei, would have failed long time ago. We may have been traders, but we do not understand management. Our managers do not understand productivity.Otherwise how can I get a submission from the Chinese Chamber of Commerce, telling me, ‘Yes, why should we confine Central Provident Fund (CPF) being managed by employers, to only big employers of 300 or more employees? We, small shopkeepers, can also handle it’. I don’t think they have the slightest clues what this is all about.I also want to add that reading the National Trades Union Congress’ second- rung leaders the day before yesterday on the recommendations of the Committee on Productivity was cause for discomfort. Either they do not understand or they do not dare to face up to the problem, and publicly tell their members: ‘This we must do’. And this is what is happening with trade unionists in Europe. They tell their employer when they meet in discussions. ‘Yes, we understand this and so on, but, of course, you know when I go and meet my members, I got to tell them something different because I got to show them that I am fighting for them’. That’s not the way to survival.I want to read to you extracts of four of the submission: good ones. They educated me, they instructed me. I chose them in alphabetical order: Americans, Germans, Japanese and the Singapore National Employers Federation: A, G, J, S. because otherwise they may be invidious. There is certain candour about the Americans which make them likeable, and they put this out in their press conference. I didn’t see it in the newspapers. Newspapers should have printed this in bold type.Fifth point:The Singapore Government in its desire to provide for its citizens has developed wage policies and social programmes such as CPF, which causes a worker to feel his future and security is dependent on the government rather than the employer.That’s a very profound remark—‘That the Singapore worker believes his future and his security is dependent on the government than the employer’. Then says the American Business Council, which should have been in bolder type:Employers do not invest in Singapore to provide jobs and welfare pro- grammes for the Singaporeans. Enterprises must strive for reasonable profit and control costs to ensure a competitive position in the market place. If this is not achieved, bankruptcy or receivership will surely happen.You see: common sense. They go right to the heart of the problem. Then they add, just by the way, they find the Singapore workers hard-working, positive, highly motivated but individualistic like the Americans. So the Americans are not as critical as the Japanese are of our workers. But then the Americans are losing to the Japanese. But they point out, as do the Germans point out, ‘Productivity Councils should alsoreview conditions where many salesgirls are non-productive—department stores, hotels, restaurants and similar establishments’. The Germans made this point. He is a very shrewd man, Mr. Puorroy. He says, ‘The Singapore paradox . . . it is well known throughout the world that the workers of Singapore are busy and industrious. One can easily see this when looking around the Kallang area—small marine wharves build ships with the highest skill. One finds this in any area where demand for performance matches the ability to perform and the worker concerned can identify with the fate of the enterprise involved’.Then he says, ‘Touring the shopping centres, factories, office buildings, one often observes operators or clerks are not in the least interested in the fate of the enterprise; just chatting and being non-productive’. He is a German, you know. He is writing to me in English. He says, ‘To be successful, you must instil a certain high-fidelity feeling in something. That means a sense of loyalty, a sense of trust- worthiness—high-fidelity’. And he puts it in an attractive and vivid way. He says, ‘Management problem is that they should not forget that not only the brains and the hands but also the hearts of people should be working for the company’. That’s well put—not only brains and hands but get the workers’ hearts. That’s exactly what the Japanese have been doing.So when I met them here in Singapore—this is the managing director, you know, of the company employing some 3,500 workers. On the anniversary of the company, they invited the workers to bring all their families to come and celebrate. Nobody came! The family is not interested in the future of the company. So he said, ‘Why is this? Maybe it’s the wrong format. So all right, Chinese New Year we invited them. They all came. Well, that’s progress’. His worker gets married, he turns up for the worker’s wedding. He is interested in the future of his worker. I will be hard put if you tell me to attend my worker’s wedding because I see quite a number of them are young and I don’t think I should be attending weddings, but this man did because this is what he does in Japan. And he says, ‘It’s very strange, you know, I was not introduced to the father-in-law, the mother-in-law and so on. We just sat around’. I said, ‘Well, you know, we inherited the British tradition and British bosses never attend the weddings of their workers. They were probably honoured but embarrassed and at a loss what to do’.But the heart of the worker, that’s what ‘productivity’ is about.Let me go back to the American Business Council. It says, ‘We favour the Productivity Council. We favour a portion of the fund now with the CPF to be man- aged by the employer as an employee’s pension and other benefit programmes’. But they point out that what’s lacking is practical work exposure for young people, both secondary and university. And this applies to the educators as well. And that’s what’s wrong. We are turning out students, graduates, Vocational and Industrial Training Board (VITB), polytechnic students, who think that their moment of achievement has arrived when they get a diploma or their degree. And they all take pictures with their caps and gowns, and that’s the summit of their career. But any American will tell you that’s the foothill and you then begin the long climb up the mountain.And the Americans made a valid point when they said that if a company can show that the majority of its workers do not want a union, must we have a union? And I say, no, I agree with you. If the union serves no function, out with it.Now, let me go back to the German. He is a practical man. He says, ‘Never mind all these talks about campaigns and movements. What you want are special action, training, and more training’. What do you mean by ‘productivity’? And you must train people on techniques—how to achieve a job with less effort, less time, less defects. That means training. And why is he having so much difficulty getting money out of the Skills Development Fund? One committee dealing with hundreds of applications . . . And if we want to be a technological society, why is our transport system not geared for shift work? Because you don’t install expensive equipment to run one shift. If you are going to install automated computerised equipment, you want to run it 24 hours a day and get as much return as you can. In other words, your transport system should be geared to make it convenient for the workers to go into the second and third shifts. So he says, ‘Let’s sit down, coordinate working hours, recommend training priorities, tool-making, for instance, statistics on national productivity’. And he also points out the lack of realism amongst postgraduates and he thinks it can be avoided by holiday work.But the most impressive to me is the Japanese Chamber of Commerce. Their philosophy is one that will ensure that they will always be there out in the forefront. It permeates every sentence. I just read you extracts. It says, ‘Firstly, enterprises should be continuously rejuvenated by ceaseless investments, as we are of the belief that in order to compete worldwide, industries must always keep up with advanced technology. If not, senility symptoms will occur and the vitality of the enterprise will vanish’. Second point: ‘An enterprise cannot exist only with machineries’. It’s Japanese English. But, never mind, you understand what it means—it’s not the machines. ‘The fundamental structures of an enterprise are human beings. Therefore, the ultimate results of the progress of the human being. And, therefore, the loyalty towards the company reflects the happiness in the employees, and it’s only rational’. So he is investing not only in the machines but in the human being and he wants life-long investment because having invested in him, he sees no point this chap hopping off to another competitor. It’s a different philosophy. I don’t think we can achieve that because we are more like the Americans. We are immigrants and who pays us better . . . well, that’s the market rate and you can’t . . . it’s not just the company. The Singapore Government too. Chairman, Public Service Commission (PSC), tells me that this year he lost 16 top scholars, all bonded. Mind you, the inflation has gone up, so the company says, ‘How much is the bond?’ ‘$150,000’. ‘Here you are, pay’. And out he goes. We have invested in him. I think we must index the bond for inflation and make it more expensive for the companies. What we favour is the prospects of long service where an employee will have the opportunity to innovate on his job, improve his skills and know-how, creating an interest in his work.‘Japanese enterprises are still on the lookout for advance technologies and are willing to invest enormous sums of money in improving technology and manufacturing new products in order to compete in world markets’. They spent a lot of time thinking out these problems and they give me a little table to show how different employers pay differently.In Japan, basic wage, if they put down 100 as index, fringe benefit is 80 to 100. And by ‘fringe benefits’ they mean allowances, overtime, bonuses, compulsory welfare, voluntary welfare, 80 to 100. So the total index is 180 to 200.In Europe and America, basic wage is 100, fringe benefit is 20; total 120. Of course, the 100 will be more because it will be a bigger wage but lesser fringe benefits.So the Japanese concept is low wage, fringe benefits equal to wages. They have worked out our fringe benefits, which the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce complains bitterly about. And it works out to Singapore’s basic wage 100, fringe ben- efits 50 to 60; total 150 to 160 compared to the Japanese 180 to 200. If you ask me, I say I move towards the Japanese. It’s a safer method. It binds the link between the worker and his company. Let me tell you the problem. The Singapore voter has voted for the Peoples’ Action Party (PAP) since 1959, 1963, 1968, 1972, 1976, 1980—six times. We have delivered. One day there will be a worldwide recession. I hope not in the next four years. I think we are all right. So we will win 1984–1985. But the link is: I vote for you, PAP, now you deliver. But how does the PAP deliver? The PAP has delivered by creating conditions which allow entrepreneurs to invest and get a good return on capital, create conditions of stability, certainty, good water supply, constant power, good communications, telex, telephone, aircraft, ships, containers, the lot— high returns, trainable workers. So were the benefits. But the linkage is wrong, you know. The Japanese linkage is better.No Japanese prime minister says, you vote for me, the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) will give you all these things. No. Let me read you what a Japanese company does for his worker. In return for loyalty and identification with the company, he gets company welfare—medical and dental care, housing which means hostels, housing loans, other types of loans at highly subsidised rates, family recreational facilities and education of employees’ children paid for by the company, farewell and welcoming parties. When you retire, they say farewell. When you come, they welcome you. Long service gifts, employees stock, congratulatory and condolence allowances—your father dies, they give you something. Your wife has a child, they give you something: discounts on company products. What is all this about—heart, isn’t it? They get the workers’ hearts. The worker knows that if the company goes down, he is down, and so he is thinking up new ideas, and that’s why Toyotas, Datsuns, Hondas are outselling now all the small-range cars in Europe and America and throughout the Third World. That’s why the linkage.So we have proposed that we get out of this British system. You know, now they think, well, NWC, oh, $32 plus 6% to 10%, oh, give me. Who says ‘Give me’? The government says, give me. NWC, what’s that? Oh, the government plus the employers and the NTUC. So just give me. Who produces the goodies to give you? That’s not their business. I think we transfer welfare to the company. We can’t do it overnight. And anyway, basic welfare whether it’s health, housing will have to be— the bare minimum must be met by the government. But I think the extras we shift on to the company. So when the company does well, you see, just like the Japanese— whole aeroplane load of company workers follow the flag on a holiday. That means the company prospered. If the company doesn’t prosper, everybody stays at home. So there is a direct nexus. This is the problem.We have inherited the British system and you see how grievously they have harmed themselves. They say, just nationalise, oh well, just redistribute wealth, squeeze the rich until the pips squeak. It sounds wonderful at election time. When they actually squeeze the pips they find the pips have run off and settle in Majorca or some tax-free haven and removed all their capital, and the country has gone down. And when the Germans begin to face that trouble, I get very worried.The Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands (SPD) has been giving more and more welfare. You are unemployed you get about 90% of your wages for first three months or whatever it is. They were explaining to me in Austria why Austria is doing better than Germany because in Austria if you are unemployed, you get only half your wages. They say, but, of course, the Germans, they are bigger countries; they are wealthier, so they give more. So if you want to take a holiday and you lose your job, just forget about it, just lose 10%, you can moonlight and probably instead of losing 10%, you can make another 50% or 60% without paying income tax. So you get a kind of sort of ‘grey market’. And the Deutsche Mark has been going down by 25% to the dollar since the beginning of this year. Why? Because the balance of payment deficit is widening . . . so there had to be a great compromise between the Social Democrats and the Free Democrats in the coalition. And out of $108 billion budget, $8 billion has been cut off. The German bankers tell me that was not enough. So the [Deutsche] Mark did not recover. They say first it must go through the Bundestag— that’s their Parliament—and you never know—it may never go through because there are many left-wing SPD members who may vote against these cuts because they have been promising the workers. Secondly, in any case, that’s not enough.So if you tell me the British are less hardworking, less patriotic than the Japanese, I say, yes, it tallies with my observation. But if you tell me the German is less hardworking, less patriotic, less group-conscious than the Japanese, I find that very difficult to believe because that’s not my memory, that’s not my impression of the Germans. But if in fact this is so, that means their system, their linkage is wrong. The political party: ‘I give you my vote. Now you get into government. You pay me the goodies’. How does the government provide the goodies? It depends upon Siemens, Mercedes Benz, you name all the big names—Hoechst, BASF, Bosch, the lot—they are the people, they are the engines for growth. And the Japanese have got it right. You look to your engine for growth. They do well, you do well. And that’s the reason for the proposals that we slowly hive off to those companies that show that they have the capacity to manage pension funds, use it. They probably get a better return than the CPF can, but must make sure that there is proper accounting, and they can give more benefits. But I think the union must be asked to agree for old workers to switch to this new scheme. But new workers, I think, we should try and get them on to this new scheme.So in 10, 15 years they won’t be looking to my successors and say, ‘Look, give me’. They will be looking to the company and that makes sense to me.I want to just read one or two items from the Singapore National Employers Federation because they made some very sensible proposals. The National Employer Federation says, and they got to the nub of the problem: ‘The human relations aspect of productivity is decisive. American technology and management systems are superior to the Japanese. Those in the Western nations are at least on par with the Japanese. Yet the Japanese are ahead in productivity performance. This can be explained by a better work attitude among Japanese workers, and a closer relation- ship between Japanese management and workers. By Japanese standard, there is a general neglect of human relations in the aspect of productivity in Singapore’. And they suggested that in the productivity council we should include academics from the National University [of Singapore] and from the Nanyang Technological Institute (NTI) and I think from the [Singapore] Poly and Ngee Ann, so that the teachers will go back and instil the right attitudes. You must learn how to motivate your workers.I want to end by telling you what Devan Nair discovered when I sent him to Singapore Airlines (SIA). And its human relations have gone wrong. I am not reciting this to castigate the management, or the pilots, or the workers of Singapore Airport Terminal Services (SATS), but to try and get everybody in Singapore to understand how even a successful company can begin to go sour, when human relations go wrong, and how they can improve in spite of their good performance if they get the human relations right. First, Devan Nair asked: ‘Who does SIA belong to?’—asked the workers. SATS said many workers said: ‘The Singapore government’. Some said it belongs to Joe Pillay. No workers said that SIA belongs to him. I have seen the Japanese—I think about 12 of them. And every one of them is proud that he is a Hitachi, or he is a Mitsubishi, or a Marubeni, or whatever man he is. And if you ask who does the company belongs to: ‘The chairman and me—all of us’. There is no identification with the company because the management do not identify themselves with the workers, and human relations are poor. Pilot: ‘This is second class hotel, since I am flying a 747 equal to Pan Am, British Airways (BA), Qantas, I want a first-class, five-star hotel’, and they got it. So the cabin crew, you know the girl that appears in the advertisements—millions of dollars—she goes into a three-star hotel, the captain and pilots—cockpit crew—go into a five-star hotel. That has been put right. Captain is the captain; he is in charge, including cabin crew. And Devan dis- covered that when the executives meet with the unions, everybody on the executive side wears a necktie, to the lowest clerk to show that they are executives, you see. Everybody on the union side: open-neck shirt. There is something wrong with their psychology. The first thing we did in 1955 was to campaign with open necks to make it possible for the worker to identify himself with me. If I’m in a neck-tie and a coat and he doesn’t own one, it’s difficult, isn’t it? If you cast your mind back to 1959, we changed the rules of Parliament to allow members to go without neckties. It was in the rules that we had to wear necktie and a coat. The British wanted everybody with a tie and a coat. And here is SIA, 20 years after the British have left, all executives wear ties, meet workers on the other side without ties. So you are a different class. Where is that rapport, where is the empathy?And Devan said he went to Hitachi Zosen Shipyard, and he saw a man in overalls with a helmet talking to him, and he said, ‘Who are you?’ and he said, ‘I am the personnel manager’. And he looked just like the other workers. And so did six other divisional directors. And one of the rules of the Japanese management system is everybody wears the same. We are all in the same boat. Of course, some are up on the captain’s bridge, and others are in the engine room. And if the ship sinks, all will sink and the captain must go down with the ship. But at least, the heart, as the German company puts, you know, the heart of the Japanese workers . . . and if you go to Korea or Taiwan where the Japanese had governed for 40 years in the case of Korea and 50 years in the case of Taiwan, you go to their enterprises, they have learnt. They all wear the same. They all eat in the same canteen, but not in SIA, executives eat in a different canteen. All this makes for trouble, isn’t it? So the union says, ‘Look, you can’t deal with my workers, my members, and any grievance, you deal with me’. So the union leader becomes a power broker. No manager can settle a dispute. He must see the union leader and it becomes a big issue. Well, that’s being changed. But once things go wrong, of course, you get the ‘them-and-us’ approach, ‘them’ meaning the bosses. And Howe Yoon Chong told me that when the British sent trade unionists here, 30 years ago, to defeat the communists trade unionist, they said, ‘Of course, our job is to make the company bankrupt’. It’s to knock the employ- ers down and make the company bankrupt’. Well, they have succeeded remarkably: British Leyland is bankrupt, British Steel is bankrupt. I think we move away from that. It’s us. SIA closes down, they are all out. From Joe Pillay down and Joe Pillay first. And when you get this kind of antipathy, then you want to get every ounce out of the employer. So Singapore Air Transport Union (SATU) has an agreement with the employers for A-class beds in hospital. So because so many government servants are in A-class beds, there are no A-class beds for the private sectors, they are sent to B-class beds. So SATU says, ‘Pay me the difference’. What sense does this make? You are sick. You are entitled to A-class beds. Give me the money for being sick. The next step of course, there is an A-class bed and he says, ‘No, I prefer a B-class, give me the difference’.And you take the attitude—productivity. You know every time an aeroplane comes in, somebody drives up the ladder, they call that ‘an operator of passengers’ steps’. And he’s got a crew of three, so there are four of them. And CIAS—Changi International Airport Services—run by Port of Singapore Authority (PSA), has only three, doing exactly the same amount of unloading. Why does SATS have four? Because of this antagonism: ‘My job is only to drive this, I have driven it. Well all right, I wait. Unloading finish, I drive it off’. But fortunately, we insisted against SIA’s wishes that there shall be competition and PSA will move in. So we know that it can be done by three. And job definition must be altered. Of course, if you don’t give them a little bit more money to start with, there will be heart burn. But never mind we will start off with a little bit more money, but there will be three. And it amounts to bad human relations. Because that’s not my job, I don’t care. I am just driving this, that’s that. The fact that another crew can do it with three doesn’t belong to me.So we had the trouble with the pilots. Flight operations manager, all senior pilots never bothered to explain why, what—no communications. Not only that, they passed each other. Every pilot has to take three tests a year. So the director flight operations, assistant director flight operations, and six management pilots test them all. But five of them, they test each other and pass each other. So it must get around to the other pilots. It must get to Devan’s ears, surely. It is not possible to conceal it. This is misdemeanour. How can you command the respect of the men . . . what you are doing?Things have gone wrong even with appraisal of cabin crew. That chief cabin crew steward is a member of the union. So he tells the cabin crews, ‘I am giving you an A or a B, or a C, are you voting for Doraisamy or for Clarence De Silva? If you vote for Doraisamy, I give you a good report. If you vote for Clarence De Silva, I give you a bad report’. Something’s gone sour, isn’t it? We put it right and we have proper management stewards, who will not be members of the union.And to cut a long story short, productivity will come the day we get it into everybody’s head that he has a critical contribution—that is, human relations. It’s got to do with self-respect; it’s got to do with cooperation between workers, and between worker and manager on the same side. And I tell you why the Japanese succeed. When we ask them, ‘Do you want unions?’—The Americans say, ‘No, if our workers do not want the union, we prefer not to have a union.’ Not the Japanese. MacArthur foisted the union on them.MacArthur thought that they went to war and became a menace to the world because they had no unions. So he says, ‘You will have unions’. And they put the communists, freed the communists from jails and the communists run the union and give them trouble. But you know, in a typically Japanese way, they adopted and absorbed the union. So the union is given excellent premises, company premises, part of the union office. Very convenient.And what’s more, all successful union leaders end up in top management. If you are a successful union leader, then you should be running the work force, a bigger work force. You shouldn’t be running around with all these grievances here. You run the personnel department. That’s how it’s done. And that’s what we have to beat. I do not for one moment believe that we are going to be like the Japanese. We can’t. First, we are heterogeneous—75% Chinese, you can break them down into Hokkien, Teochews, Hainanese, Cantonese, Foochows, you give them all the same— Hanyu Pinyin. There is a tremendous hubbub they want to keep their separate dialect identity.We are trying to unify people. You are not going to make the Hindus into Buddhist, you are not going to make the Muslims into Hindus; and we’ve got to accommodate. And we don’t have homogenous employers; we’ve got Americans, Germans, British, Japanese, the Dutch . . . But we can experiment and implement certain basic concepts.The Japanese are willing to try immediately management on their part of the CPF and improve on welfare, but it will take time. I told them it’s not possi- ble because the American view is housing, health . . . so is the German; all that is escape of responsibility. Well, in that case, we let the Japanese try. We will run it with the Japanese. And those who join the Japanese company will know over three, four, five years whether they are better off or worse off. And I think the Japanese will see to it that they are better off. And several government companies will try. Then by a process of trial and error we will work out several models, which will improve on what we have.This is not a static world. It doesn’t mean that because we have arrived. Therefore, this is our position in the league. It isn’t so, you know.At the end of the war, the Americans produced 50% of the world GNP, of the non-communist world’s GNP. They then restored Western Europe and Japan, a magnanimous farsighted act. Now they have to compete with the Europeans and the Japanese, and their GNP is only 25% of the non-communist world’s GNP. Their productivity is going down and Japanese productivity is going up.We assumed that the Germans were always going to stay on top. And suddenly they ran into balance of payments difficulties, and the Deutsche Mark gets weak, social spending cuts may or may not be sufficient and problems have arisen. So there is nothing static.We will stay on top of our problems provided we understand that there is no God-given law which says that Singapore will have 5% to 10% growth a year. You may end up with a minus. Then you will vote another government in, madder than the last one. Then you will end up with a bigger minus. Then all the bright people will flee and leave the country. I’ve seen it. I was in Jamaica in 1975, in April—marvellous country, 2,000 square miles. They nationalise bauxite, they nationalise many things. They promise all things to all men. They are bankrupt. The World Bank has totted to come to their rescue. But can they? All the good men have left. So the economy took a nosedive. Do you think you can get them to come back? It is not easy.It’s the same problem with Sri Lanka. When Air Lanka, and you might as well know this, because when you go down, to come up again may never be possible. The president wanted to restart Air Lanka. We had several Air Lanka nationals working for SIA. So he says, ‘Will you release my nationals?’ I said, ‘Of course’. Well, let me tell you that the Air Lanka, the Sri Lankans wanted to stay as SIA workers. They said, ‘We are seconded to Air Lanka’. So they are Sri Lankans working for SIA running Air Lanka. And if there is a change of government in Sri Lanka, they are coming back to Singapore to work in SIA.So, friends and fellow citizens, we got a little island—600 square kilometres. You unwind this, you will not drop down on soft paddy fields, it is hard, hard concrete, your bones are broken and it’s kaput. And if you want to know why I am tough, it’s because I know what happens. I travel and I am not looking at the tourist sites. As they show me these things, I am carrying on quiet conversation. I say, ‘Look, by the way, how much are you paid?’ And you get behind the wrapping down to the skeleton.And you know that Singapore has only one chance and that is to go up— tighter, more discipline, up the ladder. You unwind this, its curtains for everybody.On that note, I wish you—I am confident this is a good year. So I wish you a happy and prosperous year, and I say if you want many more such happy and prosperous years, just be as hard-headed, be as determined, that you will not make foolish mistakes, you will not go for soft policies as I have refused soft policies each time and each election. And every time I see a stupid article in The Straits Times, I say that chap should be sent to Jamaica and find out how much the Jamaican journalists are paid.The future is in our hands. Seize it firmly. Make your children work, make them the best possible workers possible. Not all will make it to the university. But even if they are carpenters, but they are good carpenters, you will have good houses, good furniture. This is a good and thriving country.Thank you.