Friends and Fellow Citizens:First, our mutual congratulations and relief that 1983 was not as bad as I feared at the beginning of the year and let’s hope 1984 will not see any setbacks.This evening I have prepared a script not because I wanted to but because the subject I thought I should air, bring to public attention so that we understand what is it that we are doing, what has happened to us, what is happening to us, what kind of society we will be, will slowly make possible changes in the trends which we see as most adverse.This business of government is to maximise the potential of a people in the country. The resources that we have are limited. I haven’t gone metric yet, but at low tide we were 214 square miles. I think it’s slightly under 580 square kilometres. With land reclamation it’s reaching 220 plus—I think eight square miles, so might be reach- ing 600 square kilometres. So are our human beings. What can we do with them?First, it depends on what’s the nature or the natures of the human being that we have—as individuals, as cultural groups, ethnic groups, religious groups, as a society. Educate them, train them, get them to increase productivity; get them to push hard, work hard, improve, improve and improve. Meanwhile, they are multiplying, reproducing themselves. And in this most critical sector, we have not been sagacious or wise in our politics, not that we could have foreseen the impact of policies adopted with such popular claim—24, 25 years ago. Free education, universal education for everybody, equal opportunities for men and women, monogamy. Three major drastic changes to the pattern of procreation, to the way in which a people regenerates or peoples regenerate themselves.We can reduce this [44%, no qualification, no formal education], if it is like the last three years of school results, to 12. Primary educated, we can reduce it to 20 down from 37. At the present moment, in the census, 37%, only primary education. The last three years, we have 20%. Others made it to secondary. 52% can make it to at least one O level as compared to only 12% in the census. A levels, we can make 9% from the present 4.5%; tertiary or university, we can go up to 7% from the census 1.5%.So if you look at the figures you say, ‘Ah, in 15, 20 years’ time, we shall have a highly productive educated work force.’ Will we? This presupposes two things: that in 15, 20 years, the generation that goes to school are as bright as their parents, as healthy, as skilful, as energetic as their parents.I have a second caveat. Do not assume that because a boy has gone and passed his O levels, it has made him brighter. That’s not true. A boy or a girl is what he or she is. No schooling, no magic teacher or magic professor can make a genius out of a non-genius. You are either born bright, energetic, skilful or you are born not so bright, not so energetic, not so skilful. But everybody has a share to contribute.What we discovered in the 1980 census, which I think has to be brought out, is that we are really discarding our able parents in the next generation and doubling the less able. The figures in fact were so startling, the original figures, that I refused to use them. I said, ‘No, this cannot be true’. This is disastrous because we have brought down the birth rate but unequally. And we found women ofage 40 and below with no education; on average, they produce three children. With primary education, they produce two; with secondary, they produce 1.25; with upper secondary O levels, they produce 1.33; with tertiary university, 1.25. I said this can’t be true, we will be done for.Well, I said, let us target the women who have completed their families and, you see them, women, who are unlikely to have more children. It’s not likely that they will have more, from 35 to 39. And we have worked out that total there, taking into account the percentages of women, educated women who are not represented in the next generation because they have been too educated for men to marry them. Because we did three surveys—1981, ’82, ’83—and we saw the pattern come out very clearly. Men marry their equals or their educational subordinates. Very seldom does a man marry his educational superior. So we have a 13% loss in educated women at university level; 9% at A levels; 10% at O levels. That’s not in the table. I don’t want to confuse you with an overload of figures. This can be read gradually in tables. But that explains why in the total, the uneducated, the no-qualification group for all races produce 3.5; for O levels, 1.9; for A levels, they reproduce themselves at 2.0. I don’t know why. I think it’s better for a girl to pass her A levels than her O levels. University goes down to 1.7.In other words, looking down the road, for every two uneducated workers— with a bit of exaggeration just to make my point—in 25 years’ time, you will have four. We will have four. And for two graduates we may end up with one. Of course the government of the day will find some way. You know you just lower university entrance standards and push up A levels into university, and O levels into A levels and then you tell the professors, ‘Look, lower the pass standards. Don’t be too fussy’. And we’ll all make believe that nothing has changed but you know it has changed. And to avoid that, we’ve got to start thinking what to do.What to do about the large families is relatively easy. We’ve done it before. Disincentives and incentives and we had a birth rate of 4% per annum brought down to merely one. We can bring this down. There are 14% of the population who have four to seven children. And 0.5% believes it’s cheaper to bring up children by the dozen. They had eight plus—0.5%—8, 9, 10, 11, 12. I say what sublime quali- ties have they got. Are we having a Mozart or Beethoven or an Einstein? If we have an Einstein, I’d say yes, alright, let’s try. And in fact, I am quite sure [in] countries which have no scruples on this matter there is a great deal of experimenting going on so that their pool of geniuses and highly talented people will increase in the next generation, but we haven’t got that kind of capacity. We better do it the simple way—just get our educated women fully into the life circle. Get them to replace themselves.It’s easier said than done because it’s no crime not to be married and not to have children. It’s no offence to have only one child. Incentives, encouragements— maybe it will work, maybe it won’t. But I have an incentive to make sure that if I want my pension paid in the year 2000 and beyond, I must have a government that’s functioning. If the government is working with one graduate where they had two previously, I think my pension won’t be worth very much because standards must go down. You cannot maintain these levels of competence if you increase your spread from the less educated and cut down your quota or the representation that there is in this generation from the highly educated.Now, I don’t want to be misunderstood. I think everybody has the right to be represented in the next generation. And indeed I think everybody should be rep- resented. That is my complaint; that the educated are not having themselves in the same proportions. Is it feasible to expect a society with diminishing capacity to enter the computer age, the age of computer and robotics, when the bulk of the population have parents who have not made it beyond primary school orfind it difficult to get one O level.Let me state that we can pretend, as indeed often I find the pretence almost unbearably hypocritical. I get papers from educationists who say, ‘You look at what they’ve done in Japan. 90% of their students reach high school—that’s 12 year, A levels. And of the 90%, 30% go to university’. I say, just a moment, let’s look at it more closely. Let’s see. Let’s compare with other countries in the region. Let’s take Hong Kong. Then we don’t compare so badly. How do the Japanese get 90% passing high school? Because there is no national examination. Each high school gives its own certificate. And if you can get to the high school, you get the high school certificate and the university doesn’t go and admit you on your high school certificate. The university says you want to be admitted to Tokyo Imperial University—Todai, it says you take the examination. And thousands take the examination and a few hundred get through. So 30% go to universities. If you say 30% pass Todai, Tokyo Imperial, I say, well, I will sit up and listen. Well, they say, oh, different kinds of universities. But never mind 30%, we are hard put to reach 10%. The best we can hope for is 7%. At the rate we are going, it’s going to go down relentlessly year by year, maybe back to where we started. We go on and extrapolate another 50 years, we go back to 1.5%.How did it happen? Universal education, equal employment opportunities, same pay, full careers, monogamy. When we adopted these policies, they were manifestly right, enlightened and the way forward to the future. With the advantage of blinding hindsight, educating everybody, yes, absolutely right. Equal employment opportunities, yes. But we shouldn’t get our women into jobs where they cannot at the same time be mothers. It’s tough. The Russians have lots of women engineers and women doctors. I read in the papers that now they are worried that the next generation will have less white Russians. You just can’t be doing a full-time heavy job like that of a doctor or an engineer and run a home and bring up children. It’s tough. Monogamy, yes. But we have to do something about educating our males.These are women, in other words, unlikely to marry and to have children—tertiary educated, university—13.5%. Are we that well endowed that we’ve got so many able people and we just discard this? Upper secondary, 8.5%. Even secondary. Typists, clerks—we are not using 10%. And we are expecting a generation where the numbers at the lower half of the educational ladder will multiply by a factor of two and the ones at the top multiply by a factor of 1.1, 1.2 to perform as well as this generation.I have 24 years of experience in government and I know the most precious and the most crucial asset that I must have to get a job done is talent and not just at the top but supported at every echelon. Playing a leader man in government is something like conducting an orchestra. You must have your full panoply, your full complement of all the instruments and each one must make his or her contribution.I know an extremely talented leader but he had no complement of an orchestra. He had a three-piece band. It sears my soul because I watch a country disintegrate. Prince Sihanouk is an extremely talented man. But what did he have? He had Sonn San, Lon Nol and a few others. He wrote films, he directed films, he acted in the films. There is a limit to what one man can do.I faced with a problem in the Housing and Development Board (HDB) when the contractors shied away. Prices in the private sector tenders went up and they were not so demanding as HDB clerks of works. So they all drifted with their workers and no more HDB contracts, and a serious crisis because building literally was going down to zero. Now we’ve got 1,000 units a building. This is an illustration, but it drives home my point in a simple way. You think it is magic? Of course, the HDB is an organisation but the brains must be creatively applied.I have put as minister for national development someone who rose from chief architect, HDB to executive. He doesn’t speak complete grammatical English but he thinks in complete phases. I have full confidence that a problem has been thought through. He has to support him, chairman of the Housing Board, Michael Fam; chief executive Liu Thai Ker.Let me explain. Just three, right? Teh Cheang Wan came from China, went to Penang, educated in Sydney, came to Singapore. Michael Fam, born in Sabah, educated in Perth, came to Singapore. Liu Thai Ker, born in Batu Pahat, went to Sydney—I think won a gold medal there—came to Singapore.At the rate we are reproducing ourselves, where do we find these three people? We have what is called CATS—Committee for Attracting Talents to Singapore. The whole of all the efforts scouring the universities in England, in Canada, in America, in Australia, in New Zealand. We came up with 80 graduates. I am afraid, read- ing their CVs, it’s very unlikely we are going to get any of this calibre. I hope I am wrong. But you can tell the promise in a man as you can tell the promise in a race horse. If the yearling keeps on whining in every race, whether the ground is wet or the ground is dry and you watch it closely and say, what’s the background, what’s the timing, he says, yes, I think so, I’ll bet him for the Kentucky Derby.We had one bumper harvest in these last 15 years because we had many able people, able parents who never received education. We gave them the education and they made it to the top. Having made it to the top, they came—some of them—from large families, six, seven, eight. Now they are not reproducing themselves. And there is no bumper crop anywhere.And if you look, age 30 and above, you will see 18% university-educated girls unmarried; 17%, A levels, 18.5%, O levels. Well, I am told that with modern medicine, child-bearing is safe until the very late 30s or the 40s. So we mustn’t give up hope.We have unwittingly altered the nature of our society. Maybe it’s male ignorance or prejudice, maybe it is a woman who shies away from having to put up with a husband with less-educated ways. Whatever it is, this is a very grave problem. In the old days, match-makers settled these affairs. And it’s not funny, please.I remember as a young boy hearing my grandmother talking and she got my aunt married off. She was already 20-plus, most dangerous. And there was a widow with no children, well educated, highly suitable. The result is a family of five, all of whom made university, my cousins. I don’t think we should go unwittingly from—we are caught betwixt and between—an old world in which these matters are thoroughly considered and carefully investigated and properly arranged to this new world of hit and miss.When you study these figures which I am releasing, you watch the Indian married women, I mean, unmarried. They are the lowest. Let me give you the explanation—because they still believe that it is right to settle the marriage for their sons and their daughters and the dowries that go with them. Yes, most practical. I don’t know how to have rights of option to refuse. But I should recount this anecdote because it really explains how we have wandered, in a careless way, into a minefield.In 1970, I was in Agra and I was driving from the Taj back to the hotel, a long dusty September afternoon. And I had accompanying me the district commissioner of Agra, a very able man. He was writing a thesis on Shakespearean tragedies and was telling me about it, and he was hoping to get a PhD from some university. And we engaged in conversation and we talked about caste and marriage and so on. So I said, ‘Look, tell me, with mobility and the big cities, if I were an Indian, I came to Agra and I am successful and I have wealth’. I say, ‘Well, I am a Brahmin’. In fact, I am, say, a lesser breed. He says, ‘Yes, if you invite me and you invite all the right people, I will go to your parties’. I said, ‘And you will accept me as a friend’? He says, ‘Yes, after a while, if you behave like a Brahmin’. So I said, ‘Supposing I decided to court a young lady’. He says, ‘Ah, that is different. I asked what will happen’? He says, ‘They will ask whether your intentions are serious’. And I said, ‘Well yes, I would say they are serious’. Then he said that the most thorough and exhaustive investigations are made. I said, ‘But how do you know’? I said that I’ve come from Calcutta or Bombay that has 10, 12 million people. He says, ‘No, you must come from somewhere in Calcutta, from somewhere in Bombay and we have the means to find out where. And they check on you’. He left me with a vivid impression. My neuropeptides worked in my mind, and I can remember that drive in the car and the dust blowing in and the cows with a transistor radio on one of its horns as the farmer was furrowing his field.Well, I think, must find an answer to this problem of altered social mores. We can’t go back. It is not possible. We can’t say we’ll educate our woman but only up to a point. It’s too late. We’ve opened Pandora’s box. The women won’t stand for it. And in any case, our economy is now dependent on women, both female power and female brainpower; muscle power and brainpower. So we’ve got to go one step beyond and try and fit in the problems in a new context. In other words, how do we so reshape our policies that we can educate them; that they will have full career opportunities, that the valuable well-educated, whilst making a big contribution, willat the same time ensure their contribution to the next generation—which is more important than their contribution to this generation? To this generation their contribution is a purely economic one; without their representation in the next, we are in very deep trouble.I have no answer to this. I know that this is a very old problem. The Emperor Augustus was worried in ancient Rome that his senators were not reproducing them- selves. So he had a tax on bachelor senators. They were the creative part. It didn’t work. They just paid the taxes.Somehow this has to be solved. The government can do the nurture part. Of nature and nurture that makes up the human being, nurture yes—schools, clinics, housing, gymnasiums, computer labs, the works. Nature is up to our young men and women. They decide the combination and the numbers. And as of now the trends are adverse.Why have I brought it out? Because if we don’t know, we’ll never be able . . . If we keep this under wraps and under veil and whisper secretively, hoping to work out a trick here or a trick there to alter it, we will fail. This has to be confronted. We took certain irreversible steps. We must now take further steps to bring the demographic trends back to norm. We can lighten the burden for those who have children, we can encourage them, and those who are having too many of them, they will have to carry their own burdens if they insist on believing that it is cheaper to have eight or more. But, as a society, if we are not sufficiently resourceful to find the mechanisms to overcome this distortion that has affected our pattern of procreation, the way in which we regenerate ourselves, then quite frankly—and I have said this to so many of my colleagues and my other guests when I come out after lunch at the Istana Annexe—I can see the housing estates up from Sembawang down the Benjamin Sheares Bridge and I’ve watched it over the years and the skyline has changed. And we can sustain that society only if we’ve got the creative spark still in the numbers that we have now. You cut down the creative element, the lifts won’t function, power stations will blow, the place will sag. And then you are in a vicious circle because then the bright will leave because they are the ones who can leave, and then you have the spiral down.We have the gumption to take very tough measures to get here. And we’ve got to think out some very difficult but equally effective measures to make sure that we are in a sounder position 20 years and more from now.I learned one thing from my 25 years in government, 25 next June. If you don’t attack a problem, your chances of resolving it—if you pretend that the problem will solve itself when it isn’t, it’s getting worse—you are in trouble. And I asked them, my secretary, to find out, look at all the campaigns I have been involved in—anti-litter, anti-mosquitoes, anti-this—get them all out, look up the files so that it will jog my memory. What was most dramatic, where was the turning point made? And when I saw the list, bells rang in my inner ear.In November 1964, when we were in Malaysia, we had three campaigns— anti-cow, anti-goat, anti-beggars. You see there were riots, you will remember, two riots, communal riots—one in July, another in September, and the place was going to the dogs. And one cow was along [Dunearn] Road and the lawyer drove his car into the cow and died. With breakdown in law and order and morale, I mean, all the cattle-rearers just took their cows and let them graze on the side tables. So we passed the law. It says, right, any cow found within city limits, will end up in the abattoir and off to the Social Welfare home. By the end of December 1964, the cows and the goats were gone and the beggars were in Social Welfare homes. It was a very small but a significant assertion of will. You don’t know it but my colleagues and I knew it. We were in deep trouble. We had gone into Malaysia and we were trapped in communal conflicts and we could just go down, scattered down like butter on hot sand melting into nothingness. And we said, no, whatever happens, morale of the population and the will to pull ourselves together and seek a way out. There was nothing more critical than this. This is not an immediate crisis. This is a long-term crisis, we do something about it and we can and as I have said with modern medicine, right up to the early 40s, women are child-bearing. And answers must be found but they must be, this time, your answers because the government—we can’t play magicians in this. I believe when we confront ourselves, when you know the facts, you will have to think out the answers.I hope when we meet again, next year, not only will we have growth, advance, we have begun to see some way out of this maze that we got ourselves into.Thank you.