HOW AND WHY SINGAPORE IS DIFFERENT FROM HONG KONGIn the last 19 years, several countries in Asia, namely, South Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong, have made as high, or even higher economic growth rates than Singapore. Though Hong Kong is a city state like Singapore and has similar features, there is a vast difference between Hong Kong and Singapore in the texture of the two societies.In Hong Kong, because it was not allowed to develop a separate national identity, there is no civic pride, no sense of ownership, no feeling of community achievement, no feeling of group accomplishments. The British government believed, after World War II, that they had little choice other than a policy of minimal intervention. People do not feel the place belongs to them. So Hong Kong workers have concentrated on and excelled in individual and family enterprises and made great economic progress.On the other hand, active nation-building has given Singaporeans a deep sense of personal pride in the progress of Singaporeans as a whole, not just of their own families.I believe the differences arise also from the structure and distribution of wealth and power in our societies. We have given every Singaporean a stake in our progress and prosperity. Imagine a Singapore without the Central Provident Fund (CPF), without the 340,000 families who are able to own their Housing and Development Board (HDB) and the Housing and Urban Development Company (HUDC) homes because of CPF and the government’s housing and land policy. Imagine a Singapore where people earn high wages and pay high rents for tiny rooms as they do in Hong Kong. Imagine a Singapore where the savings of large numbers of people are regularly wiped out by finance companies that go bust, like Deposit Taking Companies (DTCs) in Hong Kong, or by manipulators of the stock market. They must become disgruntled, fatalistic and resigned and will probably stay as separate groups of disparate clans and races.Compare what Singaporeans could have become, with the Singaporeans at the Padang on National Day. The Residents’ Committees (RCs), Management Committees (MCs), Citizens’ Consultative Committees (CCCs) and the constituents who foregathered were proud to watch their sons and daughters, nieces and nephews march past. They were proud to see that other groups have also made progress and that everyone’s advance contributed to the good of all.Look at our new towns with community centres, parks and stadiums. Think of their channels of communication for the constituents to reach the HDB, Public Utilities Board (PUB), Telecommunications Authority of Singapore (TAS), the government ministries and the administrators who manage them. They have their Members of Parliament (MPs), RCs, MCs, CCCs, who act like the network of nerves and sensors which monitor signals and feedback and send out messages in return. It is these invisible ties that make for the sense of belonging, a sense of security in the life in Singapore. This is what has created the sense of security, neighbourliness and well-being of residents in our HDB estates and new towns. When you look at your flat set in landscape green lawns with trees, gardens and ponds, you know that all the surroundings besides your flat are also yours; that you and the RCs help keep up the tone of the neighbourhood. This is what is missing in Hong Kong.In 1964, this was just a gleam in the eyes of a few men. In 1984, it is a reality you can see and feel. There are also gleams in the eyes of 80,000 Singaporean families now on the register for HDB and HUDC flats and of some 40,000 families who will add their names each year to the waiting list to be part of this home-owning society.OLD GUARDS CLEARING THE DECKS BEFORE STEPPING DOWNThe old guards know from their experience that it took them six years (1959 to 1965) and two crises to gain the trust and confidence of the people. Only after steering the country through the communist threats (1961 to 1963) and the communalist intimidations (1964 to 1965) did we establish abiding rapport, born out of common travail. So we know it will take several years on their own before the new guards can command the same respect. Therefore, the duty of the old guards is to tackle as many of the difficult and sensitive issues as they can. The new guards will have enough new problems of their own later.Instead of allowing Nanyang University to die a slow, painful death that could linger on into the late 1980s, I stepped in. In 1978, the Nantah Council agreed to the joint campus. In 1981, I persuaded the Nantah and Singapore University (SU) Councils to merge Nantah and SU into the National University of Singapore, and form the Nanyang Technological Institute on the Nantah Campus.Instead of allowing the Chinese secondary schools to shrink, linger and die through painful attrition into the 1990s, we decided to preserve the nine best schools by concentrating talent, both students and teachers, in nine Special Assistance Plan (SAP) schools. In them we can maintain the standards of Chinese in Chinese Language CL1 for the top students and preserve the Chinese school ambience of courtesy and discipline.Instead of Nanyang Siang Pau and Sin Chew Jit Poh battling each other for a dwindling Chinese language readership, we merged them into the Singapore News and Publications Limited (SNPL), giving them a chance to break into the English readership through the Monitor. It turned out to be politically sound and financially rewarding. Nanyang Siang Pau and Sin Chew Jit Poh made more profits as Lianhe Bao. If the Monitor, with the resources of the combined Chinese newspapers and three banks, did not pose a real long-term and costly challenge to Straits Times, I doubt if Straits Times would have agreed to merge with SNPL.Last year, I had to bring up the problems of graduate women remaining unmarried because large numbers of graduate men marry non-graduates. The Registry of Marriages shows that for the whole of 1983, over 60% of graduate men married non-graduates. This is an enormous problem caused by cultural attitudes which will take some time to alter. We have to do our best to mitigate the problems, however, tactfully, discreetly, sensitively, we nevertheless must tackle this problem and find at least partial solutions.All these are spiky, sensitive issues. It is only when a deputy prime minister or a prime minister has established rapport and trust with the people through overcoming crises together over so many years that a government can tackle them head-on. Some of the younger leaders, in time, will have to establish this level of rapport and trust, after they and you have been through crises together.SUCCESSOR LEADERSHIP THROUGH RECRUITING AND ABSORBING THE BESTWe have talent scouted, recruited, tested and absorbed the ablest and the best. By the best, we mean the honest, the unselfish, and those who are tested and found to be willing to, and can relate to people. Our specific policies must change with changing conditions. They are not ideology. Our objectives must be constant, the highest good to the most people.If this leadership maintains and improves the networkof grassroots organisations, like the CCCs and RCs, to remain sensitive to the needs of the people, to get accurate feedback, they will never be out of touch with the mood and aspirations of the people. And only by galvanising the aspirations of these people can they generate that sense of common endeavour and common destiny. Then success is felt as the result of group effort and will evoke group pride.There have been differences of views within the People’s Action Party (PAP) leadership on the pace and the method of self-renewal. Some believe the pace of self- renewal is too fast, that it could generate anxiety and uncertainty amongst some old guard MPs.Some prefer more recruitment of talent through the PAP branches, promoting activists and loyalists. Unfortunately, we tried this for years with such meagre results.Now, some propose that we create conditions under which we can appeal to the idealism of youth, the same idealism that moved the older generation in the 1940sand 1950s. How? How can we recreate the Japanese War, the Japanese Occupation, the struggle for independence, the fight against the communists, the fight against communalists? Mao tried to recreate the Long March. His Cultural Revolution wrought havoc on China.Well, I am prepared to try all approaches and will tap PAP and other grass- roots activists to add to the pool of talent. But Dr. Goh Keng Swee, S. Rajaratnam and I believe there can be no slowing down of self-renewal.OLD GUARDS GETTING ONI do not know how much time the old guards have. My senior colleagues and I are in our early and late 60s. Last October, three senior ministers were in hospitals at the same time, in different parts of the world—one in New York and two in Singapore. S. Rajaratnam had a heart attack when he was at the United Nations (UN). Dr. Goh Keng Swee was in Singapore General Hospital (SGH) for treatment. Hon Sui Sen joined him after a heart attack. Hon Sui Sen was recovering and was talking to Dr. Goh Keng Swee before lunch. They were in adjoining rooms. After lunch, Hon Sui Sen had a massive infarct. He died that same afternoon. A skilful surgeon in London, through delicate additional plumbing to his heart, has given S. Rajaratnam a reprieve. Dr. Goh Keng Swee has got a remission. But he has given me notice that he is not standing for re-election. S. Rajaratnam too wants to stand down. Dr. Goh Keng Swee cannot be moved. I am trying to persuade S. Rajaratnam to go on for another term or, at least, half a term. The amber lights are flashing. The practice of big American corporations is for the chief executive officer to step down at 65. I believe this is based on sound medical grounds. The chief executive officer has ensured a smooth succession to secure the continuing progress of the enterprise. I have a duty to do the same for Singapore.HOW QUICKLY THINGS CAN GO WRONGEven with the old guards in charge, the situation can go wrong very quickly. See how dramatically conditions can turn sour in a city state like Hong Kong. Singapore’s economic base is smaller than that of Hong Kong. We have less than half of Hong Kong’s population and about half its land area. Now ask yourself: How is it that we, on this little island, have been able to give jobs to all our people, are short of workers and are trying to persuade the older to return for lighter work and the married women to do part-time work? How is that we can give employment to over 150,000 foreign workers, more than 10% of our Singaporean workforce of about one million? It is simple: good organisation, social stability, efficient and corruption-free government and administration and a productive workforce with positive attitudes. Most critical, is confidence—the confidence of people, including investors, that the government will act swiftly, rationally and often predictably.What if the unforeseen were to strike us and confidence evaporates? Where would you, a Singaporean, go if we suffer massive unemployment of, say, 20% of our workforce, which is what they endure in parts of Britain, like Northern Ireland? What can 200,000 unemployed Singaporeans do? Where would you join the queue for a work permit? The last time we had massive unemployment in Singapore was during the Great Depression, from 1929 to 1933. Recovery did not come until 1938 to 1939, just before the war. Some 610,000 workers, Chinese and Indians, went back to China and India from Malaya and Singapore. About one-third, 200,000, were from Singapore. You can no longer go back to China, India, Malaysia or Indonesia. Where will you go for a job, for a work permit? Malaysians, Thais, Filipinos, Indonesian, Indians, Sri Lankans, Bangladeshis, Hong Kong residents come to Singapore for jobs. If you do not get one, you will starve, unless you have got a strong CPF account that can enable you to draw out, say, half your monthly salary for two to three years, which was the duration of the trough of the last Great Depression.POSSIBLE WORLD DEPRESSIONThen, there is the world debt crisis. Unless the Americans skilfully and courageously resolve these debts in a manner which enables debtor countries to grow as well as to pay a part of their debts, these problems have the makings of another world depression. We cannot assume a straight extrapolation of continuous growth. That we have enjoyed it since 1965 is no grounds for believing it will remain so. On the contrary, some economists subscribe to the Kondratieff Theory that there is a cycle of 40 to 50 years between the peaks after which economic activity throughout the world will decline regardless of what individual governments do.I have been through one in 1923 to 1933. I remember it vividly although I was less than ten years old because my grandfathers (both paternal and maternal) lost their wealth. Suddenly from big houses in Kampong Java Road and Neil Road, they moved to small houses in Katong and Telok Kurau. They sold their rubber estates, the Katong Market, and other properties for trifling sums. Several of my uncles were jobless.Singapore is unlike Manila. In Manila, 300,000 workers are reported to have lost their jobs since their debt crisis started a year ago. There is no revolution. They have gone back to the barrios or villages. You and I have no countryside to go to. Therefore, we must have savings to see us through any depression. Hence, the crucial importance of the size and safety of your CPF account.HOME OWNERSHIP AND CPF SAVINGS—VITAL STAKES FOR STABILITYOut of the disorder of the 1950s and 1960s, through sheer force of determination and tough measures, the PAP Government has produced order, stability and progress. We knew that stability and progress could not rest always on sheer force of willand powers of persuasion. We had to give everybody a stake in Singapore’s wealth. Therefore, very early on, we decided on substantial increases in CPF with each increase in our GDP. We intended it, that everybody would have substantial CPF savings. More important, we intended that people would own their homes. We planned for a massive building of new towns and new estates.In 1964, we embarked on a massive plan for home ownership, for the majority to own their homes. In 1964, we had 1,500 homeowners; in 1974, 75,000 homeowners; in June 1984, 340,000 homeowners; and 370,000 by December 1984. Another 40,000 homes will be built every year for the next two to three years. By 1994, in ten years, there will be some 650,000 to 700,000 homeowners or about 75% of the households. In other words, every couple can own their home. Those in the lowest paid categories, some 15% to 20%, who decide to ligate or sterilise after two, can take advantage of the $10,000 or one-third grant of the HDB purchase price. They also can own their homes.It is also of interest, that of the 27,000 who registered to buy in the first six months of 1984, 23% of them are present home owners upgrading to buy bigger flats, 28% present home owners splitting families and buying another flat. These figures are good measures of our upward social mobility.We have a vital reason for ensuring that everyone owns at least one home. Homes are immovable property. All legal systems recognise a clear distinction between the movables and immovables. Movables like gold, diamonds, works of art, can be moved abroad and have a worldwide market. Singapore can go down and the price of your kilo bar of gold will not be affected. But your home, landed property, depends upon the climate of confidence, the stability, orderliness and prospects of growth. When confidence is shaken or disorder sets in, landed property prices will collapse. Homeowners have a vested interest to ensure that the value of their proper- ties does not collapse through foolish and reckless actions.For instance, Hong Kong property prices have gone down to between one- quarter to one-third of their 1981 value. Some buildings have been sold at prices below replacement cost. Confidence was shaken when expectation of indefinite growth in the future was rudely disappointed when altercation started between Beijing and London. It is a lesson which our expanding home owning population cannot afford to forget.Therefore, through two assets, home ownership and substantial CPF savings, by 1994, some 75% of Singaporeans have large vested interests in the kind of government they elect. The fruition of these plans, launched 20 years ago in 1964, will help to ensure responsible voting and a stable government. Vote recklessly and both your flat and your CPF savings can be diminished to a fraction of their present worth.STABILISING FACTORS SHOULD WORK FOR NEW LEADERSThe question now is whether these stabilising factors will work even if the next group of PAP leaders do not have the same powers of persuasion. Well, I concede that tough-minded implementation of hard policies will be hazardous. But I believe a sweet talker cannot easily sell home-owning Singaporeans soft options, like attractive subsidies for necessities like bus fares, Public Utilities Board (PUB) charges, conservancy charges, health charges. Even basic food is subsidised in poor, overpopulated countries. Therefore, there were riots in Egypt when subsidies on wheat were cut at the insistence of International Monetary Fund (IMF). You name it, welfare states like Britain and Denmark have got it. And despite her, iron-lady reputation, Mrs. Thatcher has not been able to drastically cut them back.Mrs. Thatcher has been selling council houses to tenants against the protests of the Labour Party. The Labour Party fought, and is still fighting, against these sales because they fear that workers who own their own houses tend to become careful and change loyalties from the Labour Party to the Conservative Party. The Labour Party prefers workers to rent their houses with subsidies from the councils.It was a sound policy to use CPF accounts for Medisave. We could, instead of Medisave, have had the 6% as health insurance not credited to any personal account. Then everybody will get free medical treatment. Theoretically, it should work. In practice, it will be as disastrous as health insurance schemes in America or in Europe, for there would have been no sense of one’s own responsibility. It is like going to hotel lunches where for the same price, you can eat as much as you like. Enormous quantities of food are taken and wasted. So health insurance schemes have led to enormous waste in America and Europe. Even Japan has had this year to make patients pay at least 10% of the costs to check the growing demands.PROTECTION OF CPFWhen Ong Teng Cheong visited the Tanjong Pagar Constituency in April, at a discussion with my constituents, I underlined how important it was that we have guarantees for the safety of your CPF savings. The value of the Singapore dollar cannot be allowed to be debased, nor the reserves squandered. If the reserves are depleted, the value of the Singapore dollar must go down. Therefore, we formed the Government Investment Corporation of Singapore (GIC) in 1981 to ensure the security and prudent management of our assets. A good part of them has to be kept overseas in case the Singapore economy goes down and with it, Singapore stocks and properties and other assets. It is then that we shall need our overseas assets to bolster our economy and help it to recover.CPF savings will become very large. The total, at the end of 1983, is about $20 billion. In 1984, another $5.5 billion will be added, with withdrawals for purchase of flats, et cetera, at $3.8 billion. This leaves a nett $1.7 billion increase. For 1985, contributions are expected to be $6.9 billion and withdrawals at $4.0 billion. This leaves a nett $2.9 billion increase. Each year, the sum will be bigger because the contributions are now 50% and based on salaries which will go up with growth and through higher productivity.We have done tentative projections: If a young worker, age 22, starts with a salary of $600 per month in 1984, works for 33 years, till his retirement at 55, and his real wages grow by 4% per year for the first ten years, 3% for the next ten years, and 2% for the last 13 years, at 55, he will have a nett balance in his ordinary account of $70,000; $24,000 in his Medisave, if he has not been ill at all; and $16,000 in his special account, all in 1984 dollars. The nominal or actual dollars will be over $350,000 if we have an annual inflation rate of 5%. These calculations are also based on the prudent assumption that in the middle of his working life for three years, there will be a world depression, when he would be unemployed. During this period, he can draw down 40% to 50% of his monthly salary to survive. CPF rules will be amended to allow such withdrawals during a depression.These calculations also assume that this worker would have purchased an HDB flat five to six years after starting work. His flat, costing about $50,000, would by the time he is 55, be his most valuable asset, worth more than his CPF balances. The danger is that there is nothing to prevent a future government from running through these reserves. In one five-year spending spree, Singapore can be rendered prostrate and bankrupt. Therefore, we are working out a blocking mechanism whereby the presi- dent can block the spending of any reserves which the government in office has not itself accumulated. Of course the newly elected prime minister will be furious to be thwarted. Therefore, it may be better for the president to be elected by the electorate, instead of the Parliament, so that he can have the moral authority of intervention, preferably with the agreement of a presidential committee for the protection of reserves.We have spent some time studying the various aspects of such a change in the Constitution. After the next elections, when we have finalised the proposals, we shall introduce these amendments to safeguard our reserves. After the amendment, for a government to get access to the reserves of a previous government, they must have the president’s consent. And if the president disagrees, the people will be alerted that something may be amiss. I must admit that the protection is not fool proof. A silver-tongued leader can persuade the people to part with their hard-earned sav- ings. For, he can persuade people to vote to cancel the blocking mechanism in the amended constitution. Then we shall all be broke. Nevertheless, people would have been warned of what is to happen. And they can check the raiding of reserves by voting not to change the blocking mechanism in the Constitution.FROM THE POLITICS OF POVERTY, TO THE POLITICS OF PROGRESSBecause you have money in the CPF, you now have a personal interest in the protection of the reserves because they directly relate to the value of the Singapore dollar and therefore the value of your CPF savings. By giving each of you a personal stake in a home and a CPF account, you have a vital stake in who forms the government. For unless it is run by honest, able, and trustworthy men and women, you person- ally will suffer. This has politicised you, because the politics and policies of the men in charge will affect your nett worth. No amount of political education, or discus- sion, or agitation can politicise you more than you having such big personal stakes. From the politics of poverty in the 1950s and 1960s, we have moved to the politics of progress; from the politics of desperation, to the politics of hope; from the politics of squatters, to the politics of owners. You have more at stake than ever before. The nature of our politics has undergone a profound change. Before, we had little to lose. Now we shall destroy everything we have if we are stupid or reckless. If you vote in rogues or opportunists, or incompetent or impractical men, the value of your flats and of your savings will shrink. It has become your business to ensure that the people elected to Parliament are capable and honest so that your flats will increase in value and your CPF savings will grow.QUALITY OF MEN WORKING THE SYSTEMIn the end whatever the system, it is the quality of the men who run it that is decisive. For, they will decide what to make of the society, and how to get the people to give of their best. The Singapore system has worked. It will continue to work if you vote for honest, able and dedicated men, and you give them your best, for the good of all.