MAKING THE MOST IN ADVERSITYSTOCKTAKING: WHERE ARE WE NOW?In 1979, we discovered that we had held back our wages too low and too long com- pared to our competitors Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea. We were caught in a low wage, low value-added trap. For three years from 1979 to1981, we had three high National Wages Council (NWC) increases; now in 1985, we discover that they are too high relative to our competitors. How did this happen?For three more years after we have caught up with our competitors, from 1982 to 1984 we allowed wages to go up higher than productivity went up—employers were short of workers. During that period, our competitors kept their wages relatively low. Hong Kong was the most spectacular. In 1980, production workers in Hong Kong were paid US$1.44, in Singapore US$1.47. In 1984, Hong Kong workers were paid US$1.40, US$0.04 cents less than they were paid in 1980; Singapore workers have gone up to US$2.37, nearly double Hong Kong wages.Well, how did this happen? For three years, Hong Kong workers suffered pay reductions: in 1980 –1.2%, in 1983 –2.3% and in 1984 –0.3%. Hong Kong suffered a shock in 1982 when Mrs. Thatcher and Deng Xiaoping could not agree about its future; the value of the Hong Kong dollars plummeted against the United States dollars, Hong Kong workers suffered pay cuts. Meanwhile, Singaporean wages went up 10% per annum. So, our salaries have become almost twice that of Hong Kong; it is farfetched to claim that the Singaporean is twice as productive as the Hong Kong worker.Taiwan production workers in 1980 were paid US$1.27; in 1984, it went up to US$1.90. In 1980, workers in South Korea were paid US$1.08; in 1984, it was US$1.32. However, they went up but less dramatically than [in] Singapore.Does this mean that we must go below their wage rates? No—we were paid more than both Taiwan and Korea in 1980. We were then, relatively speaking, under- paid. It is our competitive position in the total sense that must be regained. Our workers can command a premium because of our political stability, our infrastructure, training and educational standards and our geographic location. It is the overall production costs including the cost of our labour that makes our products competitive. It is in this relative sense that we must regain our competitive edge. It does not mean that our wages must become lower in real United States dollars terms than our competitors. Put it in another way—how much we can increase our wages without being made uncompetitive depends first, by how much our productivity has increased and second, by how much our competitors’ productivity and costs have also gone up during the same period. Therefore, the higher wages go up in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea, the higher ours can go up, too.LIMITS TO WAGES IN SINGAPOREOur wages levels depend on those of the Newly Industrialised Countries (NICs) and also industrial countries like the United States, Japan and Europe. It is a question of relativity. When we export our goods, the wage component is one of the determining factors of whether we are competitive. A people’s standard of living depends on a number of basic factors: first, the resources it has in relation to its population, otherwise known as the population to resource ratio; second, its level of technological competence, standards of industrial development; third, its educational and training standards; fourth, the culture, the discipline and drive in the workforce.Our population-to-resource ratio is unfavourable; therefore, we have to depend on the other factors to pull us up. A service industry like airlines gives a vivid illustration of the possibilities and of the limits. All airlines use the same aeroplanes. Singapore has a smaller base of population to bargain for air traffic rights; we also have a smaller pool of passengers who travel. Our plus factor is the efficiency of our workers and their lower wages. Singapore Airlines (SIA) has the same Boeing-747s as Qantas but SIA salaries are about half those of Qantas. So, despite the fact that they have a huge continent and six times our population, we can compete and make a living. We shall continue to make a living so long as we are at least as safety conscious, efficient, hardworking and courteous as the staff of Qantas and provided we are paid less than Qantas. In other words, there is a ceiling placed upon us by our unfavourable population-to-resource ratio; I refer to the bulk of the workers in the airline business. There are no limits or ceilings for the very top managers—they are rare and valuable persons. They are in great demand and can work overseas. To stay competitive, our overall labour costs cannot be more than three-quarters of Qantas.SOLUTION: WAGE RESTRAINTThe solution is wage restraint for two years. During the two years, we should achieve 12% increase in productivity at 6% per year; there should be little or no wage increases. During this period, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea will go up both in productivity and in wages; the gap between us will narrow.If we do not regain our competitiveness in two years because we do not make 6% productivity increase per year and/or because our competitors do not increase their wages as much as rise in productivity, we may have to have a third year of wage restraint.We should not force wages down—what we need is wage restraint or a pause in wage increase. If wages are cut, it will mean a drop in spending power; this will cause a reduction in our gross domestic product (GDP). This happened in 1959 when we cut the wages of civil servants. There was a 3.9% drop in GDP: 1.3% caused by a cut in wages, 2.6% caused by a flight of business and capital out of Singapore when the People’s Action Party (PAP) first came to office.PER CAPITA GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP): SINGAPORE NOW AHEAD OF SPAIN, ISRAEL AND GREECEIn 1977, I was in Washington to argue with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) not to promote Singapore out of the group of developing countries who were entitled to what were called gold profits. Developing countries would be refunded the price increase when their gold deposited with the IMF was sold at whatever was market price then, about US$200 over the US$35 per fine ounce originally paid. The IMF wanted to classify us together with Spain, Israel and Greece as nearly developed countries; they had more than US$2,500 per capita GDP.I argued that if we left out expatriate earnings and multinational corporations (MNCs) profits, our GDP would go down by 18%; that would keep us amongst the developing countries. We would then be entitled to certain advantages like the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP). The IMF sent their man to Singapore to inspect our books. After three months, they satisfied themselves that we were not in the same league as Spain, Israel and Greece; we got our gold profits when IMF sold our gold and we have enjoyed GSP for an extra ten years.Meanwhile, our indigenous gross national product (GNP), in other words, excluding expatriate earnings and prof- its, had by 1981 overtaken Greece; by 1983 we overtook Spain, by 1984, we overtook Israel. If there are more gold profits, I shall have difficulty in arguing that we should not be classified with Spain, Greece and Israel.What does this mean? We are entering the higher echelons of industrialised countries. The going is getting tougher. It is like climbing up a mountain—the higher you go the more exhilarating but the more strenuous. Like the Wimbledon finals, in the early rounds you take on relatively easy opponents; by the quarterfinals, you meet seeded players. Standards are much higher.Spain and Greece have large agricultural bases which have nurtured ancient civilisations. Each is a homogenous people with one language, one literature, one culture. Each has a considerable industrial base which includes heavy industries. They are big nations, vast land areas and considerable populations.Israel, of course, is much smaller—four million people in 21,000 square kilometres. But she is larger than Singapore. More important, Israel has more talented people. Most of them came from Europe after the war. They were a developed people who gathered together in an underdeveloped country and set out to rapidly transform it.SINGAPORE’S TWO-TIER ECONOMYLocal businesses have been hurt more than the MNCs by our high wages. Our industrial workforce of 300,000 can be roughly divided between locals and expatriates, the MNCs. The last five years of high wage increases have squeezed the profit margins of the local businesses much more than the MNCs. The MNCs have higher technology, higher value-added products and their wage cost is a smaller percentage of their total cost.In 1983, the remuneration to total cost for all foreign enterprises including petroleum was 7% for large foreign firms; it was 21% for large Singapore firms, three times that of the foreign firms. Comparing operating surplus (OS) as a ratio to fixed assets (FA), those industries where local business predominates—food manufacture, garments, sawn timber and wood products—from the profit margins of about 22%, they have gone down to from –2% to –13%. One exception is the printing industry. Local businesses have invested in modern machinery including excellent colour separation processing—their OS to FA ratio has stayed high at 17%. Where foreign firms dominate, in chemical products OS to FA ratio is a high of 82% and in electronics 49%. A similar difficulty is seen in services. For supermarkets, the ratio of remuneration to value-added, in other words wages being a high percentage of value-added, was higher for locals than foreigners, 54% to 45%, and in restaurants, locals 59% to foreign 37%.In services like retail shops and restaurants where local businesses were the majority, the number of persons per 1,000 square meters showed an increase for retail shops from 1981, 40 persons [to] 1983, 47 persons; restaurants 1981, 57 persons to 1983, 63 persons. The reasons are weaker management, less capital equipment and lower technology. All draw labour from the same pool. Some industries like textiles and wood products became almost totally dependent on work permit holders. So, two to three years ago, the government insisted that there be a ratio between Singaporeans to work permit holders to force local employers either to relocate or to improve work- ing conditions. This wasteful deployment of workers in shops, restaurants and hotels caused profit margins to be squeezed as happened with the Emporium Group—500 out of 2,500 have to be retrenched.So, you can see that those affected early by the downturn are mostly local businesses more than foreign businesses and more the self-employed than the salaried employees. The local businessman carried a higher wage cost because he has a less value-added product. For the self-employed, he is the first to feel the loss of customers and a slowing down of the cash flow. For example, hawkers and taxi drivers have felt the departure of about 35,000 work permit holders who have left in the first half of 1985. If the recession continues, there will be shorter time and more retrenchments; then, employees will be hurt. But when the economy picks up, the entrepreneurs and the self-employed will be the first to sense the tide change. It may be a year to two.Meanwhile, workers should consider the position of their employers. If your employer is a Singaporean, not an expatriate of [an] MNC, the chances are he is not doing so well. It is better not to press him for wage increases unless he is in a sector which is doing well. Give your employer respite for two years, at the outside three. During this time he has to improve his management, if necessary, recruiting beyond the family for properly trained managers, acquiring better technology and upgrade. In the end, both MNCs and the local businesses recruit from the same labour pool and the same wage rates must apply to all.CENTRAL PROVIDENT FUND (CPF)There has been loose talk about the CPF. Someone complained that if we did not have such high CPF we would not have a recession, that one way out of the recession now is to cut back CPF. Let us examine the merits of this argument.If we had stopped increasing CPF since 1980, the CPF rate would have stayed at 38.5%, 11.5% less than it is today. With the yearly NWC recommendations from 1981 to 1984, the wage settlements would nevertheless have been at and beyond the upper ranges of the recommendations because we were short of workers. The only difference would have been that with no change in CPF rates, employers would have paid the whole increase in wages without additional savings for workers in the CPF of 11.5% (4% in 1981; 2.5% in 1982; 1% in 1983; 4% 1984)—the workers would have got all these increases immediately to spend as disposable incomes.The downturn in 1985 would still have happened. The difference, however, is that workers would have got used to spend higher incomes; any cutbacks now will mean painful cuts in take-home pay. Instead, because of increases in CPF from 1980 to 1984 of 11.5%, we now have a margin of safety for cutting back wage cost without reducing disposable incomes of workers by reducing their compulsory savings. The question is should we do so? Should we cut future workers’ savings for the benefit of employers? No, unless it is an economic crisis.I asked the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) economists this question— if one year ago there has been a saving of wage cost by 10% on the CPF and wages, would we have avoided a downturn?’ Their answer is no. There are two main causes of the downturn which can be seen in lost jobs; both had nothing to do with wage costs. First, the completion of construction projects. In the first half of 1985, 27,800 jobs were lost, registering a –7.5% change in GDP compared to first half of 1984; there are fewer public or private sector projects online. Second, manufacturing lost 11,200 jobs in first half of 1985, registering a percentage drop of –5.7% in GDP; the shipyards shed 4,100 jobs, garments and textiles 2,400 jobs, electronics 2,300 jobs.I asked MTI economists if the downturn could have been avoided if the wage cost including CPF were 20% less, if we had skipped NWC recommendations for 1983 and 1984. Their reply was that it would have made no difference. Perhaps at 20% wage cost savings, some factories for electronic products may have been more buoyant; instead of retrenchments or shorter time, some multinational corporations might not have cut back their production in their factories in Hong Kong, Taiwan or Korea because Singapore production was at lower costs. But the recession would still have happened.The CPF has been invaluable in transforming us into a home-owning society. Had we depended on voluntary savings, 400,000 would not have become home-owners. We would not have built modern Singapore in the same way. We would also have been a very different society, more rootless.We are now set to become an 80–90% home-owing society in ten years. As the housing construction slows down, we can channel CPF savings for other investments; this can be left to the operations of the private sector and at the wish of account holders who can decide their choice of assets. What is important is to remain a high savings and a high investment society. Then,we shall add to our wealth yearly and so increase our margin of safety in the event of foreign exchange shortage to meet interest and capital repayments. And we shall have enjoyed higher growth because of higher investment.Imagine the alternative of a Singapore without CPF. As we made high economic growth in the 1960s and 1970s, like workers in Hong Kong they would have high disposable incomes which would go into consumer durables. They will pay high rents to the landlords for tiny rooms. They will buy enormous quantities of clothes, shoes, furniture, television sets, radios, tape recorders, hi-fis, washing machines, motor-cars. They would have no substantial or permanent asset to show for it. Like workers in Hong Kong, they will have the sense of being done in or dispossessed. Indeed, Hong Kong workers are regularly done in—Deposit Taking Companies (DTC) and chit funds frequently clean them out through plain fraud. The Hong Kong stock markets have been regularly manipulated by locals and expatriates; amahs, taxi drivers and clerks were regularly taken to the cleaners by these operators.CPF is the last item we should touch. If it comes to the crunch, faced with a prolonged slowdown when people are unemployed for 12 to 24 months, workers must be allowed to withdraw part of their last drawn salaries monthly to tide them over. The CPF is a nest egg of last resort.PRESENT TASKS: RESTRUCTURE OLD, INVEST IN NEWOne task is to cut back capacity in industries where we are over-exposed, where events have overtaken us as in shipyards and oil refining. From the 1960s right up to 1981, these industries enjoyed rapid growth. People consumed more and more oil—large oil tankers had to be repaired. Singapore is an ideal place. We built new dockyards in Sembawang and in Jurong. In the 1970s, significant changes took place after the two oil crises in 1973 and 1979 which increased prices. Conservation cut down oil demand—less oil need less tankers. New oil fields were discovered in the North Sea, in China, in the Gulf of Mexico, all nearer to the main consumers in Europe, in Japan, and in America—oil need travel less distances. Also, big oil exporters like Saudi Arabia invested in oil refining and petrochemicals. They now export refined products, not crude, using smaller ships—the result is that for many years ahead, demand for ship repairing is down. Our oil refineries have not become uneconomic nor Singapore wages too high—the oil refining and petrochemical industries have been overtaken by events.Now, our shipyards and the one in Pasir Gudang in Johor have agreed amongst themselves to cut back capacity by one-third so that supply will not exceed demand. Shipyards need not over-compete so that all suffer losses. If it is implemented quickly, losses will disappear and some profitability will return.For an industry in a decline, the shipyards management and unions have acted irrationally. In every of the three years of declining profits, 1982 to 1984, our major shipyards agreed upon the top end of the NWC recommendations for each year. They did so again at the beginning of 1985 although two of them suffered losses. This makes no sense—what is required for survival is some retrenchments to cut overheads plus belt tightening and cost-cutting for those workers kept on. Instead, management and unions have increased the burdens on their companies and will kill the industry altogether.Are shipyards a sunset industry for Singapore on its way out? I do not think so. We are astride one of the major shipping lanes in the world. The convenience of stopping in Singapore for ship repairs gives us that competitive edge. In the long term, our shipyards will survive provided we keep up with the latest in mechanisation and our workers are productivity conscious.The problem is different from petrochemicals. When we started the Petro- chemical Corporation of Singapore (PCS) joint venture with the Japanese— Sumitomo, Mitsubishi and their zaibatsus—we were confident that they would build a most modern plant in Singapore to use naphtha, a product of our oil refineries, and produce petrochemicals economically. Unfortunately, by 1981 the demand for petrochemicals fell. Prices fell further because the Canadians using natural gas which they have in abundance at zero cost were able to undercut those petrochemical plants using naphtha. The older Japanese plants in Japan using naphtha are in trouble. Demand has not recovered; meanwhile, Saudi Arabia also using their natural gas will produce petrochemicals.We do have one of the latest and most economic of petrochemical plants but we have to compete against gas producing countries like Saudi Arabia and Canada—their plants will use gas at almost zero cost. If we could have foreseen this development we would not have gone into petrochemicals; now we have to persevere until a change in circumstances. This can come either by an increase in demand or by alternative use for natural gas which will increase its price. There are the problems of life; no country is spared. For over a century, the Swiss were renowned for their watches, products of precision engineering; then ten years ago as a by-product of the American space programme, Pulsar watches made with quartz slivers and electronic digital movements hit the market. They were very expensive but very accurate. A short while later, the Japanese who were advanced in semi-conductors and micro- chips produced cheap and accurate digital watches; then, they became more stylish and fashionable. In a few years, Swiss watches became obsolete; a whole industry was almost wiped off. In 1970 they had 90,000 workers and now 3,000 workers. The Swiss have pressed on in other fields; they fought back for a small share of the watch mar- ket with plastic watches called Swatches.The other task, more important, is to get into new growth sectors. The key to success is to identify these sectors early. Japan’s success is due to their uncanny ability to spot winners—ships, cars, cameras, watches, electrical and electronic products, computers, so many industries they concentrated [on] turned out winners.We have not done so badly. We do not have to pioneer—we need to pick up the winners which are suitable for Singapore. We picked shipyards, oil refining, electronics, computers, banking and finance and telecommunications; we were successful. What of the future? The Economic Development Board (EDB) and MTI have assessed 14 industries to be our potential growth areas for the next ten to fifteen years. These include biotechnology, computer products, specialty chemicals and telecommunications equipment and services. We have to spread our bets—no one knows how things will turn out. If out of five sectors we move into one is a success, we should be all right.CONCLUSION: MAKING THE MOST IN ADVERSITYHow we respond to our present difficulties will increase or diminish the confidence of investing in us. If we demonstrate that we are lean, trim and supple, that we are rational when faced with unexpected difficulties and can come up with imaginative solutions for them, then a younger generation of workers and leaders would have established their credentials.There is a wide gap between forecast and analysis. No economist either in the government or in the banks has forecast that we would have negative growth in the second quarter; no economist could predict that there would be such a sudden drop in computer demand in the United States, which will slow down our booming exports in computer peripherals. They can forecast the contraction of the construction industry as major projects were completed—MTI economists foresaw this. But they did not foresee that this contraction would coincide with the drop in demand from the United States. Analysis of past events is much easier than forecast of what is to be.Our resources have increased significantly in the last 20 years. First, the physical wealth of extensive infrastructure of reservoirs, power stations, roads and flyovers, airports, homes, schools and hospitals and second, the increased capacity of our people. For our most durable resources are invested in the best of possible forms—in our people. They are better educated, better trained and have more professional knowledge and business skills and a higher level of competence in science and technology than before. We have also better organisations and institutions to help us to this: schools, training institutes, polytechnics, universities, research facilities. They are our intrinsic wealth, one we cannot be parted from or robbed of them. Like individuals, so also nations from time to time have lost their wealth as Germany and Japan have after they lost World War II. They were destitute. Their factories and towns were in ruins. But the abiding resources of the German and the Japanese people were in the abilities, the skills, the knowledge, the drive, the organisational abilities of their people; all they required was seed money. So, with the United States Marshall Plan for Europe, in four years the Germans flourished again. And the Japanese after four years of supplying American war needs in South Korea got back on their feet.Immigrant peoples like our parents have great faith in education. They know that they can make and lose a fortune but if they convert part of their fortune into education and training for their children, then their children can never again be made destitute.Compare the rebirth from the ashes of World War II of Japan and West Germany with the disappointing, frustrating performance of so many underdeveloped countries. Bilateral and multilateral aid and the World Bank have poured sucessive investments into Africa but have failed to create any self-sustaining growth. Their economies could not be transformed because their peoples were not adequately educated, they could not be properly trained—they were not capable or ready for economic take-off.In gradual stages, over the last 26 years we have improved in making the best of every Singaporean child. In the 1960s, we got them into schools, many schools to teach them literacy and numeracy whether in Chinese, Malay, Tamil, English. Then, we introduced bilingualism. Next, we got them competent in one working language, English, with the mother tongue for cultural identity. Finally, we have cut down the failure or wastage rate by streaming. Students can learn with those who go at their pace. As a result of streaming, we have cut down the primary school wastage rate, which was 20% each year’s cohort, to 10% and in secondary school we have reduced the failure rate from 25% to 5%. So, we have more than double the numbers who have made it to the polytechnics and universities from 5–6% in 1960s to nearly three times, 16–17%, in 1980s. And we have not yet reached our limits. And we can still improve.