Friends and Fellow Citizens:My theme this evening is a simple, at the same time, a basic one—the social, the cultural, the non-economic factors that made us succeed economically. And as these factors change, so we may run the risk of losing that drive and that dynamism unless we understand what causes that dynamism and how we are to preserve it under different circumstances because circumstances must change.You know we have out-priced ourselves as workers against our competitors, the other NICs—Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea. First, why these four? Well, American social scientists say because they have an East Asian cultural tradition of achievement, because they have a strong work ethic, tied up with Confucianist traditions, because Confucianism spread from China into Korea, into Japan, into Vietnam—they are Confucianist too.I want to show you first before we go into where we are different from them, the other three—the area, the number of people and the per capita. Can I have the graphs? Thank you.You will see we are the smallest with 2.5 million, 600 square miles but the highest per capita GDP of $6,500. Hong Kong, most like us, 5.5 million, twice our size, slightly less than us, $6,300. Taiwan, 19 million, vastly bigger, $3,100—less than one-half. South Korea, much bigger, 42 million, three times the size of Taiwan, one- third of us.Does it mean that you are three times better than the South Koreans? No. It means they have a lot of farmers. And as they transform their farming, mechanise it, they will, like the Americans, produce much more with less people. And these people will move into the cities, become industrial workers—build ships, build motor-cars, build aeroplanes. And they will overtake us.Now, let’s face facts. We’ve had a headstart. We are small, good infrastructure, good communications. They have got going, in South Korea’s case, after the Korean War in the 1950s. The catching-up is relentless. Where does that leave us?Can I have Figure 1 showing what we are paid hourly? 1980—can you see 1980? That’s where we were, below Hong Kong at $1.47. Hong Kong was $1.51 per hour, US dollars. Taiwan, $1.11. South Korea, 98 cents. Five years of good wage increases including a slight increase last year, and we are way up at $2.44. Hong Kong, $1.78. Taiwan, $1.45. South Korea, $1.41.Now, if they are not weaker than us as workers, their productivity is not less than us. What does this mean? When people buy a tape recorder or a television set, they don’t worry about who made it, how good is it, defect-free, will it last, design, price. With their wages about half of ours, and their productivity is not less, spells trouble, doesn’t it? And I admit, to start with, that if we had their conditions, but our people, we would lose because they are tougher, hardier. They are one people, one language, one religion, one culture. So too, Taiwan.Even Hong Kong, all Cantonese. Cantonese-speaking—interaction very fast, very swift. QC circles don’t have to have translators. Makes a difference. Hong Kong, each one of these has their own entrepreneurs. Hong Kong started with those who came from Shanghai and other parts of mainland China like Shanghai, Tianjin. They do their own textile, their own garments, their own electrical and electronics. They have their own markets. They don’t depend on multinationals.Taiwanese design their own micro-chips. They do their own ships. They are moving on to motor-cars.The Koreans, across the board. They want to repeat everything that the Japanese have done—steel, ships, cars, VCRs, electronics. You name it, they will do it. And they are selling their tape recorders, VCRs at half the price in America. Reverse engineering—they took the Japanese set, dismantled it, found out how it worked, then manufactured.And that is the secret why we are able to survive. From time to time, I meet these big investors. I talk to them. I ask them where are their other interests, what they manufacture elsewhere—Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Brazil. And occasionally they are off guard and it slips out. He said, ‘But, of course, if you go to Korea or Taiwan, it’s dangerous.’ I said, ‘Why?’ He said, ‘They are very smart. They copy.’ As I thought, a back-handed compliment.In other words, they come here and pay us more—especially the Japanese, who are very afraid of the Koreans and the Taiwanese copying—because Singaporeans don’t copy. It’s a back-handed compliment. I don’t think they don’t copy because they are honourable and moral. They haven’t got enough scientists and engineers to do the reverse engineering, nor the entrepreneurs to fan out the world and capture markets.So apart from our infrastructure and our administration, which is free of nepotism and free of corruption, there is this extra they pay for, premium to come to Singapore—less likely to be copied and to be squeezed out. In other words, given another five—now maybe not five—ten, fifteen years, the moment the Koreans, their VCR is as good as the Japanese, then there is no advantage in the Japanese manufacturing here because that’s very big trouble. Where is the advantage? Koreans will be cheaper than us. They come here. We are dearer than the Koreans. How can the machine compete? They can come here and they can pay us twice as much as the Koreans provided the technology and the design is superior.This is what happened with Rollei. You remember Rollei? It’s a first-class German camera. They calculated that they would lose because their German workers were paid in 1969, the year they decided to come to Singapore in 1970, three-and-a-half to four times the Japanese workers’ wage. If they came to Singapore, they were paid one-fifth the Japanese workers’ wage at that time. So it should be viable. But it wasn’t. Because the Japanese poured so much research and development into it. And with the computer chip they incorporated into the cameras, it can focus by itself, it can talk to you to go back. It can do anything. Take a picture for you. And Rollei folded up.So we have to worry about this because I do not know how long we have, where this gap, this premium that we can exercise. But I know the gap will close.I’ll now show you how much the Americans and the Japanese are paid, their workers. And they are paid enormously more. We were paid, remember, $2.44. Look at the United States—$12.97. The Japanese, half that, $6.45. Of course, next year, it will show about $9 more, $8 maybe, because the yen has gone up by about 35 to 40%.That’s why the Americans want a cheap dollar so that the yen will be high and the Japanese worker will be paid more. But you know the Japanese have faced this problem before. And they change a vicious circle into a virtuous circle. High yen, strong yen means cheap imports—cheap oil, cheap materials, cheap everything. Workers—wage restraint, increased productivity. You give them four years and you will find they are way back, half way down.So there is another measurement called unit labour cost, which takes into account productivity. And if you work out from a base year, you can see how it increases year by year. It’s calculated very simply—what do you pay in wages throughout industry, and you divide it by the GDP for the whole industrial sec- tor, and you multiply it by 100. That’s called unit labour cost. It takes into account productivity as a result of increased skills, or better workers, or better machines.Now, if I have Figure 3, I’ll show you how we have fared against the other NICs. In 1980, we start all at index 100. Right? For $1 of industrial product, we all spend the same amount more or less, we start at that point—how much we pay for labour to produce one dollar’s worth of product.Now, we have gone up from 100 to 140. The Taiwanese to 111, the Koreans to 101, Hong Kong to 78. Hong Kong to 78 because they took wage cuts both directly and by devaluation of the Hong Kong dollar. Right? So that spells warning to us.140. We’ve gone up from 100. The Koreans have stayed at 101. Taiwanese, fortunately for us, went up to 111. Hong Kong, 78. If you think that’s bad, I’ll show you how we compare with Americans and Japanese. It’s also bad.Can I have Figure 4? Yes. 1980, we start at 100. We end up 140. The United States, 110. Japan, 104. 110, 104, we went up 140. So that’s what we are up against.In other words, we’ve got to hold it at $1.40 and don’t let it go shooting for the roof. We are the smallest, we are the highest paid of the NICs and our future depends on keeping competitive and finding appropriate niches across the whole spectrum of the world economy. Because that’s how we have done it.I cannot tell you what we will be like in 20 years’ time, where we will be successful, where we will fail. But I can tell you what we thought we wanted to do 20 years ago, where we have succeeded, whether we have foreseen it, where we have failed and where we have succeeded, where we had not foreseen it, which is most important. In other words, our knowledge was not comprehensive, but we were pre- pared to adjust and to adapt, and when the opportunities came, we seized them.We’ve got to pick as many winners as possible. I am simplifying it, but put in simple terms, this is how a country succeeds. You pick winners. You concentrate on those items, on those skills, on those products, which will sweep the market. Then you command a major share of the world market. That’s how the Japanese did it. Every one they picked from the 1950s were winners.First, textiles. In the 1950s, their wages were low. Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan were not in the picture. Japanese textiles dominated the world up till the 1960s. In the 1970s, they retreated, too labour intensive. They transferred their technology to the other countries.Iron and steel, they have dominated the world. Now, they can see the Koreans moving in, they are preparing not to phase out but to scale down, and go in for specialist metals and specialist alloys.Ship building, enormous success. Again, they can see Koreans, Taiwanese catching up on them. They go in for specialised vessels, high intellectual content— cameras, cars, radios, hi-fi, TV, VCR, now micro-chips, computers.And they’ve got computer chips, which the Americans must get from them to use for American defence contracts in their defence projects. They foresaw that the micro-chip was the key to a new industrial revolution.I read the short biography of the man who helped discover this. He was Sony’s No. 1 R&D specialist. And he described how in the 1950s, he went to MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) to learn from the Americans. Americans offered him a job to stay on. He said, ‘No. I’ve learnt much in my three years. My job is to show my Japanese colleagues how they should organise their research and development.’ He went back, did a few years. He was working in the government—I think MITI (Ministry of International Trade and Industry), and he left MITI, and worked in Sony. And he and a small group of men pioneered this. And as he went back, the Americans were beginning to ask him about his publications. And he learnt from the Americans there comes a point, you hold up your 10 fingers and say, ‘No, no, just wait, enough. Wait until my product is on the mar- ket, then you will see how I have done it.’You compare them against the British. They are not stupider. In fact, as anybody can tell you, they have won more Nobel prizes than anybody else except the Americans. But everyone they chose did not win. They had the jet aircraft before the Americans. You remember the Comet, way back in the early ’60s. It crashed. Some pressurisation went wrong, the shape of the window. By the time they got it right, the Americans were off the ground with a 707 Boeing. Bigger aircraft, same number in the crew. But few airports could take it. No trouble at all. Americans arranged for loans to build and extend airports. Now Boeing dominates aerospace.The British tried rockets. Then, in the late ’60s, they discovered they couldn’t keep up with the Americans. So, together with retreating from the Far East, and cut- ting down Suez, and shutting down, they also gave up Blue Steel and started buying American rockets. Now, you want to launch a satellite, you either ask the Americans, or maybe Ariane, EEC combined effort, mainly French. Or you go to China and they’ll send you up in a Long March rocket.Where do we go? We know what we have to look for. It cannot be energy intensive because if it is, we are out. We have no oil, no gas. Our neighbours have.So that’s no good for us. Good for them. We are small. Therefore, we can’t take heavy pollution—iron and steel.Even petrochemicals, we had our doubts and big arguments, and debate before we went into petrochemicals. Well, finally, we decided the anti-pollution measures can keep the pollution down, and we took the plunge. Unfortunately, the market turns sour. But it’s picking up. Can’t say. Suddenly, price of oil went down. Naphtha became very cheap. We can compete against gas. If it stays cheap, demand will go up. Nobody else building new petrochemical plants. So it may well become profitable. As the Japanese told me when they met me recently, ‘We look forward to better times.’We must have whatever gives a premium to high skill and high knowledge. So we are going for the total business environment, management of assets for overseas headquarters of multinationals. I think we’ll become an information centre because we are already a communication centre. So too, banking and finance. But how it will develop, we don’t know.Tokyo is going to be a very big banking centre. They have more money to lend than any other country in the world. Americans are net debtors, overseas net borrowing already $500 billion. Who can be the net lenders? Japanese who have surpluses $60, $70 billion a year. Maybe Germans who have $20, $30 billion. So they are going to be very big banking and financial centres.How did it happen? How did we get here? Well, 1966, Dr. Winsemius told me, ‘You must try and get a minimum 10 million-square yards textile quota.’ Why 10 million? Because that is the minimum for an integrated textile industry. Then you can do a whole range of products. How do we get 10 million square yards of quota? Try. Well, we tried very hard and we started building up the quota, particularly with America. And the Nixon Administration was well-disposed, and allowed us to build up the quota, but we couldn’t reach 10 million. Tough competition from the Japanese, the Taiwanese, the Hong Kongnites, the Koreans.As it turned out, we never did. As it turned out, it was as well we didn’t. Why? Because if we were a big textile manufacturer today, we’ll be more worried. Intense negotiations, multi-fibre agreements to fix all the textile exporters so that Americans can go to elections in November and vote for Republican candidates. All the Southern states that produce textiles, and also some in the North-east demand that you stop this import. Now they are allowed 1% growth per year for the next five years.We move into something we never expected—electronics. Nobody told us that the computer chip and the electronics industry will sweep the world. But it came along, we saw it, we got on board.SIA—yes, we foresaw that there was a chance. The Malaysians wanted to break up MSA. They told us early after Separation, by about ’67, ’68, no, they want to concentrate on domestic services. We knew we had to part company. So where do we fly to—from Changi to Paya Lebar? So we fought hard for international routes. We either went international, or we closed down. A breakthrough came in 1970.I remember the date, I remember the month, because I was at Lusaka conferencing at the Non-Aligned Meeting when the message came through that Ted Heath’s Government had approved it. We were on good terms with them. The Labour Party couldn’t help us. They were under pressure from their unions. Ted Heath believed in free competition. He said, ‘You fly to London.’ And we never looked back. From twice a week to three times a week, to daily. Now I think 12, 13, 14 flights. We are a major trunk-route carrier.Did we expect that? I tell you frankly, no. We just wanted to have a share of the trade. But once we got into the trade, once we knew the secrets, but there was, in fact, no secret. This is a service, a customer service. The aircraft is the same. The food in most cases are the same because you take it off the same airport catering services. What’s different? Reliability, safety, service. And we learnt. And because our wages are low, in 1970 about one-fifth British wages, there was no reason why we shouldn’t succeed. Does it mean you will always succeed and keep on growing?We had a meeting once about divestment of government holdings. And Joe Pillay, half in jest, said, we ought to divest. ‘This is not a sunrise industry,’ he said. Our wages are going up so high, we’ve already reached high noon. We may go into sunset. And that’s a fact.The others are learning. The Malaysians have decided that they must go for international routes. So they started in a big way. They were wrong to have concentrated on domestic services. So they lost about 10 years. But still they can catch up. The Thais are going in a big way. Garuda has put out a new image, a new logo, a new management.So their wages, if you look, I can do another chart, an ASEAN chart, and you will get more scared. You will be scared. If we are that high against the NICs, what will we be against our ASEAN neighbours? And you ask SIA to compete with them, and we are about, if you take Indonesian wages, maybe six, seven times, if you take the exchange rate of the rupiah. What will happen? It worries SIA management, and it worries me.And we’ve just got to keep on increasing productivity because the Swiss are paid three times, four times of ours. They are the world’s best airline, rated best for service. Why can’t we do it? Provided we understand quality, excellence. Of course, we lose too.You take NOL. We thought that we are a major shipping centre. So, therefore, we ought to succeed. Did we? Yes, we establish a liner trade, regular shipping routes for cargo. But we face troubles, principally, with the United States because we are a government-owned company and the United States had passed laws that discriminated against government-owned companies, designed really for communist countries. But we came under that definition. So maybe, we ought to privatise completely when the market turns for the better and the government should be out of NOL. And there is no reason why we cannot compete.We foresaw ship-repairing as a success. It became a success. We did not foresee shipbuilding. We went in for shipbuilding and nearly became a success, but the conditions turned adverse and it never really succeeded. We did not foresee oil-rig building, but with the boom in exploration in Southeast Asia we became a major oil-rig builder. Now with a drop in oil prices, it’s stagnating.Printing and publishing, never really foresaw ourselves as a centre. But it came our way. We developed the skills. Germans helped us. I remember starting the Baharuddin Technical Institute. They came, Colombo Plan or whatever special assistance programme, and there was no secret in it. You have the brains, you have the application, you learn colour separation processes, you maintain quality control and away we went.Banking and finance as an international centre, we never foresaw that. But in ’68 a Dutchman working in the Bank of America, J. D. Van Oenen, saw Hon Sui Sen, who had a discussion with me. I said, ‘Try offshore banking.’ And it is a major sector.How do we do in the next 20 years? I think in the same way. Not quite the same way but the last 20 years was relevant experience. We will not spot every winner. But having missed it, get it.Computers, definitely. Software, definitely. What else? Well, they tell me biotechnology. Maybe. So we found a Singaporean graduate doing research in Canada and brought him back and started one in Kent Ridge Science Park. We have to seed them, we have to try.But it depends on non-economic factors. What makes us try? I say social and cultural values and attitudes, administrative efficiency and the capacity to get things done and the willingness to try.I am accused often of interfering in the private lives of citizens. Yes. If I did not, had I not done that, we wouldn’t be here today. Would be the old Singapore— speaking four languages, not interacting. We wouldn’t have them all living in the same new towns, learning to be good neighbours. I don’t think we would be here.Everybody thought Saturday last week [9 Aug, National Day Parade] was a great success. What made it possible? Because, one, after 27 years since ’59, the compere, the announcements could be in English and the whole stadium understood and they responded as one. They could sing together. You know, we couldn’t sing together. We sang different songs in different languages. And it was almost immutable, unchangeable. We had to change it very carefully, gradually.We did not laugh at the same jokes. Because you can crack a joke in Hokkien, 40% of the population won’t follow you. You crack a joke in Malay. If it is very low, rudimentary, bazaar Malay, maybe 50% will laugh with you. Some of our speakers were quite good at that. But maximum 50, 60%. We did not even get angry at the same jibes because we didn’t know people were taking jibes at us.Twenty-seven years to move into one working language without coercion! Very slow, isn’t it? And it’s only next year that the last of the Chinese language schools will be phased out, ’87. Could it had been done faster? I don’t know.We’ve had this argument in the cabinet. Maybe by three, four years, but not much. In 1978 already the Nantah graduates, who were PAP MPs, knew that it had to be tackled. The other MPs told me, ‘Leave it alone, let it die naturally.’ But how can it die naturally because as it died, less and less qualified students will be let in, and because they are less qualified, the pass mark will be lowered, and more and more unqualified graduates will be produced, looking for jobs. And anyway when it closed down eventually, the government will get the blame.I sounded the ground, I sounded the Council members. They were reasonable men. I said, ‘Right, joint campus.’ ’78, joint campus, adjustment to the schools, A-Levels, O-Levels. ’81, a long big argument. Finally, National University of Singapore and Nanyang Technological Institute, which will become a Nanyang University of Technology once it has been established. Very slow, messy process.To get 50,000 to sing, maybe 60,000, took 27 years to sing in one language, same song, everybody having the same response.And Taiwan, Hong Kong, Korea were started off like that. There was the social cohesion, the unity, the instant solid response. Have we reached that stage? No. Can we reach that stage? If you are realistic, I say no. Don’t even try. It’ll cause very big trouble.We are not homogenous, never will be. But we can more and more share common goals, understand each other, know that we have a shared destiny. One language is a social glue that helps to keep a society together, but it’s not stronger than religious or ethnic pulls and don’t make that mistake. Never deceive ourselves that we can become like Hong Kong, Taiwan or Korea—tight, cohesive with one social response.Of course, we are better than before. When we rehoused, a major decision was made that we’ll take the pack of cards and shuffle it. Very high social cost because of disorientation. Suddenly, you’ll find neighbours whom you consider dangerous people. Why I always see them when I pass that kampong, now they are living on the same floor as I do. Can we trust them?It was, I think, at that time, courageous of our PAP Malay MPs to support that decision. It was not popular with the Malays. It was not popular even with the Hainanese, who had their own pockets and with several other clans. But we posed the problem to the Malay MPs and said, ‘You can stay in one group, you can be housed in one whole building or maybe three, four buildings in a housing estate, or you can have a whole town. The whole of Geylang Serai could move to Bedok.’ And indeed the whole of Geylang Serai wanted to move to Bedok. Would it have been better? I don’t think so. Luckily for us, they also did not think so. So we said no, hold it. It went as far as 35, 38%. Then we held it and said, no, the others will go elsewhere and we’ll have a mix. Now it’s down to about 30, 32%.At least, we are interacting up to a point because interaction is a voluntary, spontaneous human instinct. And even after this dispersal, the HDB knows and all the MPs know that after balloting, the Malays will swop and choose the lower floors. They like the lower floors. Chinese and Indians like the upper floors. So those who get the upper floors get a free exchange, bonus, and the Malays get together on the lower floors. It’s a fact of life. And they have a distinct, separate social life around their mosque, around their religious festivities and festivals. And even in the factories where they work together, because of different religions, the Malay girls eat separately from the Chinese and Indian girls. They prefer it.So this distinctiveness you say we can change that? I think no. Should we try? I think also no. Leave it. We can be a free tolerant, easy society. Each can choose his own lifestyle so long as you don’t break national solidarity, don’t become disruptive.One problem for instance was the mosque in the housing estates. I mean, enormous problems. If you have the loudspeaker up in the minaret five o’clock in the morning, instead of tolerance, you are going to get rising resentment and conflict. Inevitable, because not everybody wants to wake up at five plus for Fajar. Fortunately, commonsense prevailed, and we broadcast it. And so, there has been no conflict.And it is this relatively easy relationship that we can hope to improve on. But not homogeneous unity.The Indians, well, they are Hindus, therefore, less of a food taboo. They sat together with the others. Easier for fraternisation, and more integration in both places of work and in the new towns. But it’s still not one community. Even amongst Indians, it’s not one community. The Sikhs want to study Punjabi. They don’t want Tamil. And we allow the Khalsa School to teach Punjabi. And why not? If you want to learn Hindi, by all means. But remember, the working language in Singapore is English, and we assume that you can operate in that language.Of course, our biggest success has been in obliterating, or nearly obliterating, the divide between the Chinese-educated and the English-educated. That was a very big problem—1950s, ’60s. By the mid ’70s, it became less of a problem. By the ’80s, it’s more or less resolved because a new generation, now other than say, 6, 7% who are monolinguals, all can do two languages.The complaint now is CL2, not high a standard. Not enough. Well, my answer is, you do the trade-off. The higher your CL2, the more you have to give up of either EL1 or some other science subject, because there’s only 24 hours in a day. You decide. What we will do is to give you a basic, so that when you leave school, whether it’s with O-Levels, or A-Levels, if you have the need in one year, you can build up the vocabulary and do business in it without any trouble because you are educated in the language. You are fluent in the language. What is missing is the wealth of vocabulary.And the clans and the dialects, the divisions are also disappearing. Not so fast. You know, we offered everybody Pinyin to register their children’s names. I gave the figures. The majority, clear distinct majority, still want to keep their dialect names, although they know when their children go to school, they’ll be given a Pinyin name. And it’s not new. If you go to a Chinese school, your name is written down in Chinese characters. And you, maybe Tan Seng Huat, or whatever it is, and when the teacher calls you, he says, Chen Sheng Fa. And if you don’t know, well, he said, ‘That’s you.’ And in three days, the boy knows that’s him. But now in Pinyin, they said, ‘Look, what’s this? Your name is not Chen.’There we have succeeded. But there is a price to that. Because we are now bilingual, because we have access to English textbooks, magazines, newspapers, television, we travel, so western values, western lifestyles seep into our lives. And we are in danger, if we don’t concentrate on this, or concentrate on keeping our basics and our distinctiveness, of becoming a looser, less cohesive and a more individualistic type of society. Emphasis on self—the government’s duty, society’s duty is to allow my individual fulfilment.Who says so? It’s axiomatic. You don’t have to ask. Everybody knows that. You see the newspapers, you see the TV features. Fulfilment is the answer to life. Who will guarantee you three square meals a day, a safe roof over your head, that you won’t be attacked and captured and destroyed?Ask the foreign correspondents, who write this, how we guarantee that. But they are not interested. They are interested in purveying their set of values. They start off with those premises. And particularly the Americans, they come from the most wealthy civilisations. They believe if we follow them, we will become wealthy like them. The strange thing is the Japanese have not followed them, and are getting wealthier. And those who follow the Americans are getting poorer.So we accept, as a fact of life, that we will always be maybe 20%, maybe even 25% less dynamic, less cohesive than say the Koreans, or the Taiwanese, or even Hong Kong. If Hong Kong had a self-governing identity, they could develop this thrust.I read the Zao Bao, and I read The Straits Times and I know that after long years now, they are converging. They are looking at the world through more or less the same spectacles. But I read Berita, and I know that I change spectacles each time. Different astigmatism. They are interested in totally different things. And it is the way Singapore is.And just as a matter of passing interest, really more than passing interest. I mean, I say it’s passing interest, but you know it’s deep. I looked at the election results in Malaysia. Yes, the DAP won. But did they win the Malay vote? Where 60% and above of the voters were Chinese, the DAP won 15 out of 15 seats. They contested 15, they won all 15. Where Malay voters were more than 40%, the DAP contested 13 seats and won 1. It means that even the urban Malay voter, whatever his grievances, housing, jobs, etc., decided no, I will vote for the MCA or the Gerakan because they are going to be part of Barisan Nasional, which is controlled by the biggest party, UMNO. And that makes sense for them.But whether, of course, that will solve the urban problem is another matter. But those are facts, and the relationship there, under totally different circumstances, does have its influence on us because there are relatives straddling the Causeway, both Malays, Chinese, Indians. True, we are becoming gradually different, but very gradually. And what happens there, inter-communal relations, like it or not, has its spillover effects on us. We watch their television, they watch ours in Johore. So remember, we are not like any other society which is homogenous.It is this political base that determines what we achieve in economic terms. If the political base is fractured, like in Sri Lanka, nothing will be achieved. Indeed, there are a group of aid donors who have told them, if you don’t solve this, they are going to call it quits, because it’s a waste of time sinking money in order that they will buy more guns to shoot each other up and blow each other up.We intervened with Mandarin, promoted it and asked people to drop dialects, pick up raw. It was the right decision. Right? If we had not done that, then the teach- ing of Mandarin in schools must fail because we know they can’t cope. So why are you teaching a language which they will not use? It was interference in a personal preserve—intervention. But it was necessary intervention. 1980, we stopped all tele- vision broadcast in dialects. Brace for unhappiness. Many MPs told me, why not relent, have a little bit. I said, ‘No, we’ve waited so long, let’s try.’ 1986, all the old folks now can understand Mandarin. They may not be able to speak it, but they watch the programme and they understand what’s going on. So it has succeeded.Let me just recite briefly the other things we intervened in. Spitting. We started in 1958. If you have been to mainland China, you know it’s an ancient Chinese tradition. Yes. So sometimes when we have special guests, we have special spittoons, we bring them out. But is it a good idea? Can we not change? We believed we could. And we have changed for the better, healthier.Littering. We started [to intervene] in 1968. Not so personal, but nevertheless. Courtesy. We started in 1979. Now, killer litter. Should we intervene? We can just look the other way and occasionally some people die or get maimed or injured, can’t be helped.Well, there are two approaches. I believe as Singaporeans become more westernised in their values and attitudes, they believe they’ve got to have all the rights and privileges. I say right, this is a new phase, give them the option. You decide, you make up your mind, you exercise the choice, you pay the price. Anyconstituency that says, ‘Absolve me from the killer litter law, except me’, and people can be killed, right, we will exempt them. Let them have the choice.Someone said this is double punishment. I sometimes feel a little aggrieved with the way the second generation leader- ship is being treated. It’s nonsense. One is the state punishing you for a crime. The other is the leasor or the landlord exercising a right of covenant that you will not behave in a way that makes you a danger to your neighbours.Every landlord and tenant, every leasor and lessee has on his convenant, if you use it as a common gaming house, orif you conduct it as a body house, or a brothel, or a disorderly way, I can possess it, repossess. And the fact that you are being convicted means I need bring no proof at all. It’s already solved by the courts. I take possession. Where is the double penalty?Yet I read in the newspapers people writing, mostly anonymously, saying we are now sophisticated; we are educated, we are sophisticated. The first thing about sophisticated people is they never refer to themselves as sophisticated. That you claim you are sophisticated shows what a country bumpkin you are.And I say without the slightest remorse that we wouldn’t be here, we would not have made the economic progress if we had not intervened on very personal matters—who your neighbour is, how you live, the noise you make, how you spit or where you spit, or what language you use. Had we not done that and done it effectively, we would not be here today. It was fundamental social and cultural changes that brought us here.And now the most difficult part is how to manage this transition. It’s not simply just to govern. To govern is simple. But to let the second generation govern is very difficult, is very delicate, because if it goes wrong, I am still responsible. If the ball just shot into the goal, I am the goalkeeper. And there’s one basic difference between the first and second generation, which is obvious to everybody.The first generation, we decide what is right. Never mind what the people think. That’s another problem. We know what we have to do, which is necessary for  people’s survival. Then we set out to persuade the people to accept it, whether it’s against spitting, whether it is to adopt English as a working language, whether it is to give up Mandarin, whether it’s to give up the old mosques and build new mosques, transfer into new towns and live with your neighbours, who are not Malays and not Muslims. We set out to persuade people to our point of view.The second generation, they are slightly different. First, there are now such things as taking a poll. So you say, ‘Oh, do you know what people say?’ Feedback says so and so. When I read the feedback, I say, ‘Oh, is that so? That means I must explain further and get the message across.’But in America it’s worked out to such a fine art that you remain popular by following popular will. Says ‘What’s the latest?’ ‘Oh, so many percent are against this.’ ‘Oh, in that case, I’m against it too.’ Mr. Reagan is the most popular president probably since Franklin Delano Roosevelt. That’s 1946, ’45. He doesn’t dare cut social security, pensions, Medicare, Mediaid because if he touches that, there’s going to be a howl of pain. And yet they know that it’s heading for bankruptcy. The fund must go bankrupt unless more subscriptions are paid. And there’ll be less and less young workers to pay for more and more old workers. Then what happens, if that’s not my problem? We leave that till the year 2000 while another president will worry about that.And that’s the difference between the PAP and where the second generation is equal to the first generation. I take heart because I have not pushed them on this. I said you do it, you know the problem. I say they have some similarities in key attributes—integrity, commitment and a willingness to go for what is right and not what is popular.It’s difficult because they have different skills in persuading. So I get the paper. It says how to get people to have more children and so on. It says, ‘We will employ a public relations agency to explain. I say this is new. So we will have half-minute or 30-second spots. I suppose you can think up new slogans—at least two, better three, four if you can afford it.But my generation, we coined the words ourselves, we minted them. I didn’t get a public relations agency to write ‘Clean and Green Singapore’. I just looked at the scruffy place and I said, no, this is nonsense, we’ll go down the drain. Any investor coming to Singapore, seeing it in such a scruffy state knows that this place will go down. And we were going down. Riots taking place, ’64. People demoralised. That’s when ‘Clean and Green Singapore’ got coined. And we made it, we pushed it.Well, this is different. But they are willing to tackle it. And they know that popular government does not mean you have to be popular when you govern. That’s not what it means. It means at the end of your term, whether you choose to run for four years or for five years a full term, you must retain enough popular support to come back and form the next government. That’s what it means.But, of course, you can work yourself into a situation where every straw poll will decide policy. That’s fortunately not going to happen. And I think in part because Goh Chok Tong is willing to make tough decisions. I didn’t choose him. His colleagues chose him. His problem is how to sell those tough decisions.So it takes a longer time. It’s gradual, in stages. But never mind, better than not tackling the problem. These are relatively simple ones.You know, everybody wanted employees’ CPF also to be cut down and more take-home pay. It’s so popular, commonsense. It’s very good, good for the market. Extra 10% cash and increased purchasing power, the economy will recover. They didn’t do that. I was just watching and I advised against it. I said, ‘But it’s a popular thing, up to you.’ But it’s really not up to them. If they had done that and continued to do that, I’ll say, ‘This is no good, this is going downhill.’ And I will be quietly looking at the gears and think well, at some stage we have to change direction.Wage restraint for two years is tough. They know it’s tough. And it needs persuading, particularly next year when the economy will be on its recovery.Corporate tax, the recommendation was reduced to 30% and start from this year, or rather give last year’s income tax. Suddenly, we were in a give-away mood. This is crazy. These are hard-earned savings. Who is playing Santa Claus with whose money? You know Machiavelli? He said, ‘Never give what belongs to you because you will have less to give away and nobody will like you when you don’t have more to give. Always give what doesn’t belong to you.’ And I nearly came to the conclusion that they decided that what was saved did not belong to them—it belonged to my generation.They did not give it away. Straightaway they started from next year. In other words, we influenced future behaviour, not past behaviour. That’s just a give-away. And what is more—they know it’s necessary and it will be unpopular. There will be a consumption tax. Has to be. We are not Hong Kong. We’ve got a defence ministry. We’ve got [Ministries of] Health and Social Services. Who pays?The New Zealanders, with a Labour Government, have had to cut back income tax, lower rates, and in October they are starting a 10% goods and services tax, GST, and we ought to study that and avoid some of their mistakes. I think that’s better than the consumption tax. I was there in April and that’s going to be unpopular. In other words, you see the doctor, or you see the accountant, or the architect, or the engineer, and he sends you a bill, the lawyer sends you a bill for $100,000, well, you ought to pay let’s say, 5% tax. That’s $5,000. Why shouldn’t you? You can afford to pay $100,000. We take a tax of $5,000. That will be very fair and equitable.They are prepared to deal with the ageing population problem. Don’t have to, just postpone it. When it happens, another government down the road in the year 2010 or 2005 will deal with it. Is that the way to govern? So they say, ‘No, we’ll deal with it now. CPF minimum $30,000, which includes the value of a house and you withdraw a sum every month from the age of 60.’ The Acting Minister for Labour will announce this in Parliament in detail soon. But they are prepared to tackle it.And, of course, most important of all, this declining birth rate. You can take the cowardly way out and say that’s very touchy, leave it. Let’s think about it. We have been thinking about this for the last several years, since the 1980 Census became clear from 1981–82. And every year that passes by is a year lost. And you don’t take a decision and you immediately have more babies. It’s going to take five, seven, nine years before you have a turning of the corner. But it’s very sensitive. Of course, it’s sensitive. 14,000 babies short every year. That’s for replacement.What is the explanation? Well, what I brought out three years ago—educated girls are not getting married—graduates and A-Levels. I did not want to confuse the picture then, I just dealt with graduates. On present projections, 40% of all women who go to university will stay unmarried. No, there are no graduates to marry you. That’s that. We have been capturing the data of the Registry of Marriages.1983, 37% of male graduates married female graduates. After I raised the bal-loon and told them it wasn’t the best of choices in the world, it increased by 4% in ’84 to 41%. Actually, it’s 37.7 to 41.7. In other words, they are rational thinking men. Never mind all the hullabaloo in the press.All the foreign correspondents started writing what a crackpot government trying to interfere with people’s lives. We have already interfered with people’s lives— we gave them the same educational opportunities. We gave them equal job opportunities, we did not understand because we were too young that we could not change cultural values that the males, together with mother’s milk, learn that they must be the boss in the family. And if they marry another graduate, they won’t be the boss. So they all married down.Result—’85, another improvement to 45%, ’86, first half of this year, improve-ment to 49%. So, since I raised the matter, from 37%, SDU plus other activities, net increase from 37% to 49%. So, I say, don’t give up. Get the message across. Read it year after year. The facts and the figures cannot lie.On the present trend, 40% of women graduates will not marry and 36% or 37% of A-Levels will not marry. That’s a very serious position. So because all the men go down like that, the lowest of the men can’t go further down. There’s nobody. They can only go up to the highest. And the girls with A-Levels and above are not going to marry them, and they are afraid to marry them.So you want to know why amongst other things, the birth-rate has declined precipitately? You look at these figures. And it is grave because it will alter the nature of our society. If we go on at this rate, we will not be reproducing the kind of society we are in 20 years. It is a different society. It will be a lower performance society. It must be.You sit down and ask yourself. Is it a riddle? No, it isn’t. You leave out all your best—5 ‘O’s and above, 2 ‘A’s and 2 ‘O’s and above, and graduates—just leave them out. Year after year, 40, 30, 20 plus percent. And the net result must be half-skimmed milk, isn’t it? It must be because you are not reproducing. Whether it is nature or nurture, these are the groups that, statistically, can be shown to have the highest of the achievers.I have watched these results over the last 27 years. When I started, I believe just like everybody else. I was like Dr. Tan Cheng Bock. No, he’s a good man. I have a lot of time for him because he is honest, he is sincere, and he wants to be fair and equal. I disagree with him because I had to govern Singapore for 27 years and I know that those assumptions are wrong. We are born unequal. And we’ve got to make the best of the lot. And whether it’s fruit trees, whether it is racehorses, whatever it is, this is the way nature works. It’s the bio-chemistry, how it is transmitted.You can’t get fruit trees from Thailand what you can get today, 20 years ago. You can get big fruits, sweet fruits. What did it? You go to Rangoon, as I went there, the pomeloes were like 30 years ago—not so juicy, not so sweet. They have not been doing their R&D. Their bio-genetic agriculturalists have not been at work. But in Thailand, you buy any fruit, any pomelo, and it’s better.Don’t we want to use some commonsense and say to ourselves, the more we have of people who can run this economy better, the better it is for everybody. Because one outstanding man, who discovers how to do a micro-chip or whatever, can transform our lives and provide jobs and raise standards of living. And when we are throwing away whole sectors of people who should be reproducing themselves and are not, and even those who get married, have 1.3 children—in other words, two out of three have one child—we are in for a very big trouble.Where does the SAF get its officers from? Now, this is not a matter which will go away by our doing nothing. So I was pleased—well, not pleased—I was relieved that they had the courage and the political will to take it out into the open. Of course, they are doing it differently as they should. So they say, ‘Well, let’s get a public relations man, that is, 30-second spot on television on how to increase the family size.’ Well, I say, try everything. But try and don’t hide it, or the problem will get worse and we shall all be in trouble.This is a new Singapore with a younger generation, which you saw an example of it on Saturday. And there’s no reason why they cannot achieve under different circumstances. Maybe not 8%, 10%. I say 3%, 5%. Richard Hu is more optimistic. He says 4–6%. So is Lee Hsien Loong, 4–6%. Well, I have always been a very cautious man. When I say we try 3–5%, that means let’s aim for 4% and let’s make 4%.But this has got to be a self-reliant, self-supporting and self-deciding lot. They must face the options, weigh the cost and the benefits, decide whether the trade-off is worth it. It’s on little things, like Sunday parking. You decide, you learn to take decisions. The other way, somebody sits down, worries about it, finds out how it will work and settles the rules. Some people’s bound to be unhappy. This way, you make up your mind. There will be lots of unhappy people. You face them, whether it’s the Residents’ Committee (RC), Citizens’ Consultative Committee (CCC), Management Committee (MC). How you want to distribute monthly parking tickets, you do it. In fact, I think the new towns should go to elected representatives.HDB tells me now standards will go down. I say, small price to pay for educating people on the realities of life. They are better educated. They will know that each decision has its cost. It’s that basis that we made these decisions, or they have.It started before the last elections, the thinking. I said, no, let them invest their CPF funds. Why should the government have to guarantee a minimum when they are aiming for the maximum, but not knowing that if you aim for the maximum, the risks also increase of you losing a large chunk of it.They are better educated, they’ve got a minimum. Let them use what is above the minimum the way they like it. You take the advice. You can go to a tree and pray and see what message you get, or you can go to your banker, management consultants. They will advise you, and if they give you the wrong advice, well, scold him roundly, and take your custom elsewhere.Just like HUDC. I said let them run it. And more and more in this phase, the government should privatise. Not just running corporations other than what is essential—security, defence, police, basic education. I say even education. We had to provide because nobody provided adequately. The Chinese schools depended on the clans to run it. The Indians had their own schools. The government provided just enough to produce clerks and storekeepers.But there is a disadvantage in the government providing because there’s total uniformity. No competition, no different forms, no chance to prove that somebody can do it better. I say, why not? Let’s take six of the best and tell them, here, for each pupil, you are paid so much, capitation tax. How much more you want to charge, how much more you will provide—better teachers, better facilities—whatever it is, up to you. That’s the way how the best schools came to be, whether it is America, or Britain, or Australia, or Canada, that’s the way it’s run.And had we had such a system, we would have known by 1971, ’72, that we were underpaying our teachers and getting low quality graduates, both A-Levels, Higher School Certificate (HSC) and university. They were getting better paid elsewhere. All the teachers were joining the Foreign Ministry. All those who would have become principals and had the initiative and the drive, joined the Foreign Ministry or some other ministries. And the schools were going down. We had no mechanism to check.Change is an essential part of life, but the direction of change, the speed of change, the method of change, has got to fit our circumstance. And remember, we must know enough of the past to know why the present is what it is. We cannot afford to be purists. The foreign correspondent, the academic, he comes here one year, he thinks he’s an expert. He starts on basic principles and dishes out advice.Could our system have worked? Could we have got here to begin with if we did not have drastic curbs on gangsters, whom we can detain for two years at a time? You want to abolish that? Why do you think drug trafficking is down in Singapore? Not only do we get hold of drug traffickers even when we can’t prove and can’t get the evidence, we also get hold of the addict and check his urine every day. True, he can go out and get his dose, but it is contained. You cannot run the system any other way.We have two Members of Parliament in the opposition, and they spout forth purist ideas. Why not this, why not that? That they are able to take part in an election, and without spending money or bribing people, can be elected after a one-party Parliament from ’66 to ’81, is all I need say of the integrity of the system. We don’t have to cheat. We run this straight.Whatever I do, I am prepared to publicly justify. Whatever I cannot justify, I never do. And I will justify the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act. I will justify the Internal Security Act anywhere, any place.I had the US Human Rights State Department—I don’t know—Commissioner, whatever she was called, Pat Derian. She came. She was President Jimmy Carter’s man or woman. Spent two hours with her. Gave her a short history. After one hour, she said, ‘Can I go somewhere where I can smoke?’ I said, ‘Yes, why not, let’s go outside the air-conditioning.’ She left. We didn’t hear any more about it. Not that she’s changed her mind, but she knew that it’s most unlikely, whatever the pressure, that we are going to change our mind too because we are fighting for our lives. This is not fun and games.The system works because we made basic alterations to suit Singaporeans— the culture, the people.After an election—you watch Sabah—Mr. Kitingan had a two-thirds majority. After a few weeks, he had lost his two-thirds majority. Somebody had more money than he had, and his members of the legislature had switched sides.You cannot do that in Singapore. We changed that in 1963. We had enough of Barisan and PPP, with Ong Eng Guan switching sides and so on. So if you stand for a party you resign, you also resign from your seat and contest a by-election. That is very democratic. And there is stability. Do you think we would be here without the stability?And it is because we altered it that we allow the party to say whether or not a candidate, who takes the highest votes, sits with the Opposition. You think Mr. M. P. D. Nair, who was offered the seat, would have declined if he could have accepted it? We allowed the system to work so that the party could say, ‘If you take the seat, we will expel you; you will lose the seat.’ We drafted that into the Constitution so that an alternative party can emerge.It’s not my job to build an opposition. But it is my job to make an opposition possible. We can play it like it’s played elsewhere. With money and chicanery, we can demolish the system, and without money you can never beat the system. Is that what we want?When this transition is over—and it won’t be very long—it requires a grown- up electorate, one that understands that there are trade-offs, that there is a price, that this is not what comes naturally. We are here because we did many things, which went against the grain, but which was necessary to make a cohesive, coherent people out of a disparate, often conflicting, often colliding ethnic, religious, multiethnic, multi-religious, multilingual groups. And the divisions have not disappeared. They are less and should get even less.But we will not be a high performance society, 100% equal to the Koreans, or the Taiwanese, or even Hong Kong. Not to recognise that is to hide our heads in the sand. To recognise that is the beginning of wisdom and a chance that what we have built can be improved upon.Good night. Thank you.