Friends and Fellow Citizens:I want to summarise what I have said in Malay and Mandarin or rather condense in a few sentences the reasons why I have said what I have.We are a segmented society and not to recognise that is the first step to problems. When I spoke in Malay, I chose certain charts because they were matters of concern and the Malays are concerned with keeping pace with the Chinese and the Indian communities. And the tables I showed indicated—I hope, would convince them—that they are moving into the same new towns, 3-room, 4-room, 5-room, some executive, some HUDC [flats], and what can be achieved in 10 years’ time. They want to get into the mainstream of life, which is to be encouraged because they want to be Singaporeans. But it is going to be a tremendous effort to keep pace because as they make their advances in education, the Chinese and the Indians are not going to stay put. They are not going to stay at today’s level; they are going to go further ahead.So it’s a constant effort to keep up. But I think they can because otherwise they wouldn’t be in the new towns. And those figures I showed them would make no sense to them. But I know that it does make sense because more than 70% of them are now in HDB new towns. So when they see these figures, they know ‘Ah yes, that’s me.’ They can see the assets they own, ‘Ah yes.’ So in 10 years’ time, that’s what we will get if we work together, we cooperate and also, we try and outperform each other and compete.And it is this balance between cooperation and competition, that’s one of the fine points of judgement, of good government.I want to briefly take you to some tables. Can I have Table 1? This is owner households.It gives you a fair idea of how many of us have become property owners. The [numbers in] red are 10 years ago, ’77. These are the number of units. HDB, there were 27% of Singaporean householders. Now, it’s become 69% in HDB. In the private estates, 10 years ago, it was 8%. Now, it’s become 7%. In numbers, it has gone up, from 30,000 to 46,000. But in percentages, it has gone down. Attap, zinc and shophouses, 10 years ago, 20%. Now, it has gone down to 4%.What will it be like 10 years from now? Table 2, please. 94% will be owners, rentals will be 6%. The assumptions are simple. 5.5% GDP growth every year, wage increases of 3.5% in real terms, inflation of 3% over a 10-year period, and we make that.Now, let me have Table 3. This will give us the monthly income, what it was 10 years ago, what it is now, and then we’ll see what it will be in 10 years’ time.The 3-roomer, $780, 10 years ago. He now earns $1,200. 4-roomer, $1,030, now $1,770. 5-roomer, $1,490, nearly $1,500 10 years ago, now $2,740. Executive, $3,440, none 10 years ago. HUDC, nearly $5,000, none 10 years ago.Let’s have Table 3.This is what they have—POSB and CPF. Red—10 years ago, blue—now. So it’s $46,000 now, 3-room; $55,000 4-roomCan I have Table 3? Assets. This is now both savings in the CPF and POSB, plus the nett value of the flat. Red is savings and total assets, blue is today. This half represents POSB and CPF. This half represents the nett value of flats. In other words, the value of flats on the market minus what is owing. And you see how they have grown by multiples of four, from $17,000 3-roomers to $80,000, 4-roomers to 24–107, 5-roomers to 38–173. We are no longer the downtrodden proletariat. Now, what will we have 10 years ahead—1997?Can I have Table 3B? 3B, please.This is what a 3-roomer will be worth, 4-roomer, 5-roomer. His POSB and CPF will be $300,000. His nett value of the flat will be $245,000. The assumptions are simple ones. I’ve told you, GDP growth of 5.5%, salary increase—3.5% wages, inflation of 3%, property values go up with shortage of land approximately at 10% a year. The POSB and the CPF have been based on the savings rate as at present.Now, can I have Table 3B and then Table 4 quickly? This is what is the standard now in the households in Singapore.Table 3. Telephone—100%, that’s common. Refrigerator—100%. TV, almost 100%. Air-conditioner, 3-roomers, 7%; 4-roomers, 14%; 5-roomers, 36%.A car—18% for 3-roomers, 36% for 4-roomers, 66% for 5-roomers. Motorcycles—16% for 3-roomers, 15% for 4-roomers, 6% for 5-roomers. I think they are the wise ones. There is no need to donate your kidney. You donate it only if you have to.This is hi-fi but you look at this grand piano. Pianos and organs—3 room- ers, 6%. 4-roomers, 9%. 5-roomers, 26%. Computer: 3-roomers, 3%. 4-roomers, 8%. 5-roomers, 24%.Now, that is the Singapore of 1987. What it will be in 1997, I cannot tell you because I cannot predict what the lifestyle is going to be. But to achieve this, first, how did we get here? Well, it’s like the ‘yin’ and the ‘yang’ in the Korean or the Chinese symbol. You need both cooperation and competition. And all societies swing from too much cooperation in which case growth becomes slow, everybody gets more or less the same rewards, to too much competition in which case, the slow runners feel, ‘No, no, this is leaving me out of all the prizes’, and they begin to create disturbance and general unrest so that everybody is disturbed and growth is slowed down. That has happened in Britain. There is general bloody-mindedness, like the coal miners— just bring the country down.1 Doesn’t matter. I know I am not doing well. I am going to prevent you from doing well.What is interesting in this last decade, in these last 10 years, I think, has been the shift away from welfarism, high progressive rates of income tax on the successful to pay for the unsuccessful. It has brought the country further down.So the irony is you have a Labour Government in New Zealand cutting back income tax so that people will keep more of what they earn and slapping on a Goods and Services Tax, 10%. It’s a Labour Government doing this based on their principles of socialist egalitarianism—better that some get more in order that the working man at the bottom will also get more because the other way, you squeeze everybody down.So they cut subsidies to farmers. They cut out protection for industrialists. They cut income tax. They impose GST, Goods and Services Tax. And the prime minister just won his re-election yesterday. I cheered for him. In other words, New Zealanders have also learned. You can only squeeze a man so far, after that he goes slow. Why should he be sweating his guts out to take a large chunk of it and support his indolent neighbour?The Australian Labour Party is doing likewise. Also cutting income tax. Also a slowdown in wage increases and cutting spending on health.Britain, Mrs. Thatcher has got a third term. People don’t like her. So they say in the newspapers. But 40-plus, 42%, 43% voted for her for the third time. They have swung too much to welfarism and they were paying an income tax of nearly 80% at the top ranges. And people were sitting around doing nothing, collecting their unemployment benefits. And the economy slowed down. So they are moving away from equality of rewards towards more incentives to make the people excel.The United States is also doing the same. Mr. Reagan tried to cut back on social security. A bit difficult because his supporters were a lot of pensioners. So he didn’t really cut them back. Health is also difficult. But he cut back income tax.And we have to cut back our income tax because this is now worldwide. People compare—where do I put my capital? Where do I open my next factory? What are the end returns which include what I pay in taxes?But of all the countries, the one which I have considerable regard for is Japan. Thirty-plus years of Liberal Democratic Government, LDP Government. Socialist, communist, Komeito, Sokagakkai—all on the side lines. When it comes to the vote and they think of their jobs and their bonuses and their salaries, they voted back the LDP. And they maintain a real fine balance between teamwork and excellence, both the cooperation and the competition.After 70 years of the Russian Revolution, the Soviets have decided their system is stifling them. And they are going to move, also to use the free market to decide the prices of goods and services and also to decide wages. Now, it’s all being decided by Gosplan—somebody in the hallowed walls of the Kremlin sits in a committee and passes them every few years, every five years.China wants to do the same. They have opened up their ports, their free trade zones. They know that small differentials in salary, everybody wearing the Mao jacket is getting them very little progress. And in fact, it’s also hypocritical because not all the Mao jackets are of the same quality. They look the same, but they are not. You look closely at them, ‘Say, ah, it’s this.’ And you can see the number of pockets they have and the number of fountain pens they have. And I’m told, some have a fur lining inside when it’s cold. Finest fur.They have decided that the grey, drab uniformity brings about grey drab indifferent performance. The iron rice bowl has to go, clothes are becoming different. And they are going to encourage—you read the newspapers—one town is going to get everybody to buy their own homes. Otherwise, you pay about 2% of your salary in rent. The rent is not enough to repair the home or the flat. It goes into disrepair, general dilapidation, collapse of the home, overcrowding.In other words, the idea of producing a superior being, a socialist man, what you see in the glossy pictures, bulging muscles, carrying the hammer, woman carrying the sickle, blazing forth into the future. That’s what the artist has been told to dream up. When it comes to doing that day in, day out, they ask themselves: What is there in it for my family and me? There is not very much in it.Of course, if you are a cadre, you are a top flight man, that’s different. You can’t calculate these things, the hospitals you go to, the homes that you have, the cars that you are entitled to, the food that’s supplied. In the Soviet Union, if you’re part of what they call the ‘nomenklatura’, that means you are in the list of names in the bracket, there are special shops, you can get things which the ordinary shops do not have—high quality goods. But it has not worked out.Now, our problems as we go forward are to maintain this balance between cooperation and competition. I raise this because when I read the report on the feed- back on independent schools, I felt disquieted. There was a majority of about nearly 65%, 70% of parents who said independent schools, elitist, is a taboo phrase; excellence is a taboo phrase, it’s abstract, it’s bourgeois. But 80% of Singaporeans now are bourgeois, and they say this is bourgeois. They don’t know this is for them.‘Why’, I ask myself. Well, maybe the calculation goes this way. There are only going to be three schools, maybe at the most four. What are the chances of my children getting in? Very small. So why all this special treatment, which will make getting into the university more difficult later on, and so on? I think, quite natural and understandable, but I think short-sighted, and I want to explain why.We are not doing this in order to have just three or four good schools. We are doing this in order that we can see what we must do so that we can improve all the schools, and as many as possible to equal the independent schools. As long as the government is the sole employer of teachers and principals, we don’t know what is the real market salary of a dedicated teacher or an inspired principal or headmaster.He doesn’t have to be a scholar, you know. My best teachers in schools that I remember were not the top students of their year. But they were people who had a lot of time for their students, who took trouble to make sure that you are interested, you are kept moving ahead. It’s a very personal one-to-one relationship. The ideal in any teaching is one-to-one.And indeed, for some subjects, when I was a student in England, because there were not very many students studying Roman law, I had the professor teach me one to one. Most other classes, they would have on a tutorial or what they called supervisions in Cambridge. Just after the war, you have five, six, seven, eight students to one tutor or supervisor. But this is one to one, specialised on you.That’s the way the Royal family gets their children brought up—one to one, tailored to meet the capabilities, the interests, the abilities of the child. But you can’t do this country-wide. It’s not possible.So the good schools show what is possible. 1 teacher to 25. What is a good teacher? What we know is when we paid them a flat rate, we were losing all the good men. As the economy boomed in the late ’60s and ’70s, they left in rows. Then I saw them turning up—conferences, Ministry of Foreign Affairs so and so; you look at theCV—ex-teacher. And they are all the good ex-teachers who have joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, all the new ministries after 1965. They left the teaching service. Result was low quality. I’m not saying low quality because they remained but because they remained not out of a willingness to want to be a teacher, a desire to be a teacher but a lack of choice. That is wrong, isn’t it?You want a man or a woman to be a teacher because he or she wants to be a teacher and enjoys teaching children. What do you pay? Every year, you’ve got a batch of new 5,000 graduates or soon to be. You’re buying for about 1,500 Arts and Sciences, Humanities and the Sciences. If you take all your best graduates to become teachers, your industries and your banks and other enterprises will sink, so you have to spread talent. And there is no better mechanism than price, freely bar- gained between the employer and employee.When we don’t have independent schools, the parents send their children abroad. We can’t stop them. We didn’t want to stop them. But we could not allow them to go to foreign schools run in Singapore because that would create problems for us. Now, I think these independent schools will establish good models and good yardsticks, including salaries. This kind of person is what you can get, is what will be drawn to teaching. That is what he has to be paid if he is to stay in teaching and not moved off at the next turn up of the market.And the word ‘excellence’ is not bourgeois, abstract, taboo or elitist. It means you do your best and reach your peak in that job. Whether you’re a craftsman, what- ever you are, be the best that you can be. And countries do that; many people do that—the Japanese do it. And I am very struck by it each time. Because when I go there, the people I meet mostest are waiters, cooks, SOs—security officers, bureaucrats, ministers, managers. There is no air of confidence; there is no apologetic lack of aplomb. The waiter comes in standing straight up, looking very smart, very businesslike, takes your orders, serves you with panache and grace.Last year, October, I went to Takamatsu in Shikoku, a small island south-east of Japan. So I thought, well, can’t expect Tokyo standards. I was very impressed. The mayor gave me dinner at the hotel I was staying, just a three-storey hotel, 20–30 years old. Halfway through, the cook appeared—sparkling young man, well-trained— sliced up the beef, great panache, great style, served it up.The fruit appeared, he appeared again. I have never seen it done, but I am told it’s very common. It’s nothing spectacular. He was able to take a persimmon, put it on his fork and take a knife, without touching the persimmon, he peeled it. Then he sliced it and he served it, said, ‘Which fruit would you like? Persimmon, pears, oranges?’ I chose the persimmon. He skinned it, sliced it, served it.Five years before you are allowed to do that. Five years before you are allowed to call yourself a cook. In Singapore, I am told, after one year, you don’t give him a salary increase, he’s off. It’s a totally different attitude. He has started out in life determined to be a first-class cook, and he’s proud of it.I travel, I get security. But the most impressive of SOs I’ve had is in Japan. I go to other countries. They know I’ve taken jogging up, alright. They give me a piece of field, they cover the four exits, all entry points of the field covered. Now, I run around and around, they stand and watch.A few years ago, I was staying at the Akasaka Palace. It’s a guest palace where they held all these big meetings and so on—like a Japanese version of Versailles—big grounds, secure fence, railing. I went jogging. I told my own SOs said, ‘Don’t worry, this is secure.’ Three Japanese SOs already changed and insisted that I jog with them or that they jog with me. I said, ‘Is it necessary?’ They said, ‘No, it is an honour, Sir.’ They could have just sat back, folded their hands, watched me and chatted amongst themselves. No, this is their job.Their managers, when you meet them, on the ball, done his homework, not one unnecessary question. When I meet them, a group of industrialists, they have done their homework, they have read, they ask me questions. They have even before- hand spread out the questions so that nobody repeats any over-lapping questions. Meal over, discussion starts, within one-and-a-half hours, bang on schedule, into the car, off you go. If you are the chairman, then you behave like a chairman. And the doorman who opens the car door at the Keidanren which is their Confederation of Industries, he is proud to be a doorman—white shirt, straight up, opens door very efficiently, bows, puts you in. No apologies, no diffidence. That’s excellence. Do your best.You look at the SAF. That’s what we have done from 1965, first batch. You know, 1966, ’67, it was Bravado and Braggadocio. That was all we had. Many of you are too small, too young. Othman Wok, Jek Yuen Thong, one-third of the PAP MPs were showing the way because we had to get the public to accept the people, to accept this. They couldn’t march very well. God knows how good their shooting was. But standards have gone up.And in order to have general standards up, you must have elite units. So we have the commandos, one battalion, five companies. It took a long time to get to that level of competence. You must be a cut above everybody else. You must be able to run faster, jump higher, do all sorts of things other soldiers cannot do. We have the second-tier elite, three guards battalion, one brigade, then the SAF. But even the average SAF is of a highest standard. But in order to get the average level to go up, you must have the models to jack them up. So the commando, when he gets too old to continue as a commando, he becomes a warrant officer or a sergeant of an ordinary platoon or a company. And he knows what is possible with a first class company or platoon because he has done it and he knows what is possible.One of the problems of Singaporeans is we get trapped in the values and attitudes of the west. And because the British and the Americans, or more the British than the Americans, feel that anything that is superior smacks of elitism, so elitism becomes a pejorative word, a bad word. But it was the elite that brought Britain up to the heights of empire—a group of men selected for their outstanding abilities, went to their best institutions. In the army, they went to Sandhurst. There are many others. But you have to be very good to get to Sandhurst. In the universities, you go to Oxford or Cambridge. And from there, you branch out, into the city, into the civil service, into the empire. But they have become defensive about it.I don’t think that’s going to be good for us. If we are defensive about nurturing our best to achieve their best, and encouraging all the average to achieve more than what the average can do without encouragement and without good models, then we would not make that progress that I have showed you in the statistics.I know everybody wants their children to get to the very top, and it’s our busi- ness to make sure that every child gets the maximum that he or she can reach. But we cannot stop the others from going up higher just because somebody else’s child feels that he’s being left behind. It’s the way nature has spread talent in a population.One proviso. Health, education, jobs, housing. That’s where the cooperative effort has been kept. Nobody feels that he’s abandoned, left out. If you are sick, you will be attended to. But if everybody gets the same right of access to dialysis or kidneys or whatever, you end up as in Britain. The system breaks down. The pricing mechanism is the best mechanism known that societies have devised to ration scarce services.Given these basics, nobody needs to feel left out. Yet you know, we’ve had a new crop of Marxists who feel that we are an unjust society. They want a classless society.Very soft words, you know, he says classless society. Say well, yes, you just abolish the class by legislation. Do you?What is a class? A class is a group of people who more or less enjoy certain qualifications or are able to do certain jobs and enjoy a certain standard of living. Is Russia a classless society? East Germany, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, China, North Korea, Vietnam?You want to make Singapore a classless society? How? First thing you’ve got to do is to confiscate the property of 80% of the households of Singapore. If there are only 10% owning their properties, that’s a different proposition. But when 80% own their properties and 94% in another 10 years, how do you bring that about? But we will have more of them. I think it’s inevitable because every generation will throw up the disaffected, the discontented, the ill-adjusted, and some of them genuine idealists.Remember Italy, much more advanced, more prosperous than we are, in the 1970s and 1980s, they had communists who won 20–30% of the votes and every year, they have new generations of communists turning up.In France until Mitterrand, they used to win 28%. Now, they have gone down to about 13%, 14%. Even Japan has about 8%, 9% votes for their communists.Does it mean that if we have Marxists and communists, they will become a minority party? This is Singapore. This is not Europe, this is not Japan. We’ve got a deep-rooted Communist Party of Malaya (CPM), but an underground organisation intact, guerrillas still in Peninsular Malaysia and on the borders, over a thousand on the border, a few hundreds in Peninsular Malaysia, and assassination squads and very great experience.And you know the Plen, Fang Chuang Pi who dealt with me, whom I last saw in 1961, in May—I met him four times; he represented the communist underground and dealt with me. He is still around, very able man, Chinese High School, best athlete of the year, brightest student of his class. I was pressed by Tun Dr. Ismail to disclose who he was after we joined Malaysia and I announced that I would tell Dr. Ismail in 1964, giving him a few months to get away. The last time I heard of him, he was nearly captured in a chicken farm in 1972 or ’73 just about 20, 30 miles from Kuala Lumpur. He is still around.There is Mr. Chia Thye Poh. All he has to say is, ‘I abjure violence, I denounce the use of force to overthrow the government.’ He will not say that. He denies that he is a communist. He was a member of the CPM. We know that. He knows that we know because those in the same cell as he was have been discovered and have given evidence. Why? Because he has spent more than 30 years, nearly 30 years of his life, or of less than 50 years of his life. He became a communist in school. He was a full-fledged member of the Malayan Communist Party at Nanyang University as an undergraduate. Why? Why should he scrub out his investment?Many people say, ‘Well, but you know, this English-educated lot you see.’ Just even my dear colleague, Mr. Rajaratnam says, ‘You know, after a few months, a few weeks, they were forthcoming.’ I think we should not make the error of believing that because they are English-educated, therefore they are incapable of resolution, determination and conspiracy. This lot is a fresh lot, it’s like the SAF in its early days. It takes time to toughen them up.It was because the Plen underrated us that after my last meeting he decided no, he will give the signal to Lim Chin Siong and knock us out. He did not believe that a group of bourgeois, soft English-educated types, who work in air-conditioned offices and sleep in air-conditioned rooms, would slog it out with them. He underrated the level of our commitment and our willingness to see him to the end of the road. After all, we only die once. But whilst we live, why not sleep in an air-conditioned room if we can afford it? I perform better the next day.But let me move on to a very important problem that has arisen out of this— Marxists using the Catholic Church. It’s a very difficult, very sensitive issue because the government’s policy is to be neutral to all religions and, in fact, we are favourable or favourably disposed towards all religions. We know that with rapid change, people get psychologically disturbed and they need spiritual support.In Korea, in Taiwan, in Hong Kong, there has been a tremendous surge of Christian converts. They also have rapid growth. Mostly in Korea because they had urban migration, complete change of life in a very short while. So from about 10%, 12% a few years ago, there are now about 30% Protestants and Catholics. So, there are now about 7.4% in Hong Kong. Korea from 14% to 30.3% from ’77 to ’85. These are Christian publications that I’m quoting from. I think it’s a missionary group that puts out fairly reliable data which are given to the press and they can keep the sources. In Taiwan, from 5% to 7.5%. In Hong Kong, from 10% to 17.5%.And in Singapore, from about 10% in 1980, it’s gone up to about 12 point something percent in ’86. Not 20% as was quoted in the Far Eastern Economic Review. I looked at it. I said, ‘This is odd, check it up.’ The chief statistician has gone through it with my secretary and they have looked up all the data. It’s about 12%. Very good increase. And we are not against it. But I want to sound a word of caution.Because as a young generation of pastors who have taken MAs and PhDs in the American universities and they go there, they see Jerry Falwell holding forth on television, ‘Moral Majority’, a power in the land supporting Reagan. Then there is a Jim Baker and his wife who have gotten into a bit of trouble. You know, there are very many other people. So, in case they have misconceptions about our society, let me remind them.First, we are different. We are not a society where there is a broadbased acceptance of Christian values and Christian faith. And however much progress they made, it’s unlikely that we are going to be Christianised. Because the same missionaries went to China, went to India, and because they are old civilisations with old established values and systems of life, they never Christianised the place. Just like Japan. You have some Christians but Japan is not a Christian nation. And Singapore is not likely to be one.Can I have Table 6? This will give the population breakdown by religions. Christianity, Catholic and Protestants—12%; Catholics—5%, Protestants—7%. Islam—16%. Buddhism, Taoism which includes ancestor worship—59%. No religion—9%. Hinduism—4%.Now, the impression of many Christians being won over to the fold is because the higher educated—A Levels, university types. Because of many reasons—English language, more sceptical mind which questions the practices of Buddhism or ances- tor worship, in all these burning of joss sticks and so on. So theyhave taken more to a religion. And I read one book.My knowledge of what’s going on in the religious world has tremendously expanded since the last few months. You can well imagine because I take an interest. When I tackle a problem, I like to see it in depth. And one book I read, a very thoughtful book. It said most likely that we’ll become a Christian nation. Why? Because so many of our teachers are Christians. So I said, ‘Give me the breakdown’.Let’s have Chart 6A. You see, 38%—Christians, Muslims—10%, Buddhists and Taoists—21%, no religion—10%, Hindus—5%. But does that mean our students are going to come out 38% Christians? I don’t think so.During a period of great transformation in society, people need spiritual support. And in Japan, during two big periods—one, the Meiji Restoration, from about 1830 to 1890, another, just before the war, 1930 to just after the war and the allied occupation of Japan to 1960—they had 1,000 new religions. I didn’t know all this. I said, ‘What new religions are they?’ They are all offshoots of Shintoism and Buddhism. They all are responses to fundamental changes in the social environment because of industrialisation, urban migration, war, allied occupation. And they were all revitalising movements to create a more satisfying way of life. And their goals are humanitarian ones—amelioration of social injustice, helping with educational institutions, hospitals, welfare services.So, I think it is to the good that our religions have helped to resolve what psychologists call anomie—a sense of loss of purpose in life, loss of direction in life, confusion, stress, break in ties of communality. But once religion crosses the line and goes into what they call social action, liberation theology, then we are opening up a Pandora’s Box in Singapore. We are not a Christian nation. We have Christians, yes.We are not a nation with a religion or committed to a religion. We are neutral, even more so than the Americans.The Americans in their First Amendment protects the right to worship, freedom of religion. As a result, no federal funds can be used to support any school that has any prayer or any religion. And President Reagan has been trying his best to get that through Congress. He failed. And the Federal Court in America has held, not even one minute’s meditation. Neutral. No particular form of prayer, just one minute’s meditation. That was turned down.It’s the only way a multi-religious society can survive. The Americans have their own reasons. They ran away from persecution, religious persecution in Europe—the Huguenots, the Puritans, the Baptists and so on. They ran away from their problems in Europe. In Europe, as it was in China and Japan, religion was the other side of the coin of temporal authority. On one side, it’s the king, on the other side it’s his witch doctor. Or in African tribes, on one side it’s the chieftain, on the other side it’s his witch doctor. And you can’t have the witch doctor saying something which the chief doesn’t agreewith. The tribe would be divided.But we have attempted something novel here. We are secular, we leave these things to the free choice of the people. But a younger generation of priests, not understanding all this,but going to seminaries and saying yes, yes, must have social action, injustice, moves in. Because the Catholic Church has gone into social action and liberation theology, so the Anglicans in Britain have had to respond. So they come out with a report and condemn Mrs. Thatcher’s inner city policies—deprivation, want, gap between rich and poor widening and so on and so forth, education bad, housing bad. And there is now open editorial discussion that at the rate it’s going, the Anglican Church would be dis-established. In other words, no government is going to stand by and not defend itself. That’s obvious, isn’t it?What we want our religious and para-religious groups to do is to give relief to the destitute, the disadvantaged, the disabled, to take part in activities which will foster communal fellowship, emphasis on charity, alms giving, social and community work. And priests better stay out of espousing a reform of the economic system or challenge to the way we do things, social policy or theory. Once you say MNCs, multinationals are bad, NWC recommendations are exploitive or exploitative, where do we go from there? You don’t expect us as a government to have somebody with this divine authority bestowed on him at second hand or third hand from the Pope to the Archbishop to the priest. I mean, the Pope doesn’t come and tell me that my NWC is wrong. And his little priest here is telling, circularising and saying, ‘Here you are, use this as preaching material, 150 copies. All priests giving sermons, use that.’ Well, alright, then I’ll say, ‘Look, we’re on, isn’t it? We’re on into the link. Is it wise?’Rights and wrongs of welfarism, better leave them to political parties and politicians, or ordinary lay citizens, not Catholic priests, not Muslim theologians nor Buddhist monks. For these people, they have a celestial or heavenly or sacred hallowed links, and so their words carry extra weight. If I tell you that the NWC is another year of wage restraint, I am appealing to your reason, your logic, your interest as a worker, as the head of your family and your duties as a fellow citizen. But if you have been seeing me every Sunday and I have been preaching to you and I have been hearing all your problems in confessions, then I say, ‘Ah, but remember that what has recently happened about this NWC is a wicked thing. It’s a sin.’ It’s dangerous. I will have to find a line to my Almighty then. Because I can’t be at a disadvantage. If he has a line to the Almighty and he’s believed, I must have a more powerful Almighty. Then I’ll be believed. And where do we end up? Just ask yourself this.They run good schools—St. Joseph’s Institution, Anglo-Chinese School. You know, good moral attitudes, St. Michael’s, St. Andrew’s. They have so much that they can do. They are tired of just religious work, then Ministry of Community Development needs social and community workers, child-care centres, kindergar- tens, senior citizens [centres], day-care centres, old folks’ homes, counselling of drug addicts and probationers. They can even join our youth camps, People’s Association, our RC Ladies’ Clubs or they can arrange their own community interaction, and we will join them. We will encourage our Youth Clubs and our Ladies’ Clubs to join them.But, remember, Sri Lanka was a happy, peaceful place. I visited it for the first time in 1956 on my way to England for a conference. In the old days, you had to sleep one night there. May, it was. It was a beautiful place. Immensely better than Singapore, because Singapore was occupied by the Japanese, the place had gotten run down. Colombo was Ceylon and Kandhi was the headquarters of SEAC— Southeast Asia Command. Money was spent by Lord Louis Mountbatten and his troops. Marvellous place. I thought, ‘Oh, marvellous place, this.’ I walked around in [Galfi] Hotel and so on. Beautiful place.Later that year, I read in the newspapers, in the election held, a man called Solomon Bandaranaike had won a sweeping victory and knocked out Sir John Kotelawala who was a Christian. And Solomon Bandaranaike was a Christian, went back to Buddhism and he promised the Buddhists if he won, certain recommenda- tions which they have put up in the report will be accepted. In other words, they will become an established church or religion and Sinhalese will become their official language. Ah, never was the same again.I had the signal on our meeting with Mr. Bandaranaike. He came here to open a temple in Ceylon Road—a Buddhist temple. And the then chief minister. Mr. Lim Yew Hock invited me to dinner and other opposition leaders to meet Mr. Solomon Ridgeway Bandaranaike. Ridgeway is the name—our famous governor of Ceylon, and Mr. Bandaranaike’s father was so impressed by this governor that he gave his son the name of Ridgeway. Solomon, you know who, what a wise man, he was. Ridgeway after a great governor and Bandaranaike after his forefathers. It was a memorable evening.A brilliant conversationalist, educated in Oxford, great debater in the Oxford Union. Very smart, bright man. I left the meeting feeling a little awkward. Maybe, it was because I was so filled with such dire forebodings of what was going to happen to Singapore.You know, we had riots over the Chinese Middle School’s students and so on. And here he was merrily changing the official language to Sinhalese. And the whole of Ceylon had been a model British colonial development scheme. They had universities, schools in English, a whole thick layer of trained civil servants and professionals. All English. Suddenly overnight, he says Sinhalese. Big problems, dislocation and he was such a happy man. I thought well, maybe something is wrong with me that I’m filled with forebodings about Singapore. That was August ’57.Two years later, September 26, 1959, a Buddhist monk went up to him and shot him dead. They were not satisfied. They had voted for him and they wanted more. You know the rest of the story. Then Mrs. Bandaranaike got on the platform and she wept at election campaigns and she became prime minister and so on and so forth. The place was never the same again.One-man-one-vote started in Ceylon 1912. They voted for one seat in the Legislative Council meant for Sinhalese who were educated in the British way. Six seats could be voted for and one was given to a Sinhalese. So they voted in 1912. And then in the 1930s, they had their own elected Colombo City Council and an elected mayor. So it’s a very deep practice and tradition. It has ended up in the [Tamil] Tigers blowing up bus-stands and the Sri Lankan Air Force bombing Jaffna. Their own people are not bombers. I didn’t know they had bombers. No—it’s an ordinary plane. You carry the bomb and you off-load. Why do people do things like this? Because that was the only way you could get to Jaffna. The whole population had become anti. But constitutionally, it is completely alright, one-man-one-vote. I won, I am the majority, I govern. Now, it’s become ‘one-gun-one-vote’. Yes. Soon, it will be ‘one- bullet-one-vote’.And it was a very brave president who reached this agreement with the Indian Prime Minister because the other way is total destruction. I think it needs great courage, and there are many serious problems to overcome. Even assuming all is peaceful, and they have buried some arms, but not too many, and they carry out the vote, what is to prevent them from resuming at a later date because they have already got the organisation? They know how to build an army. They know how to be a terrorist. You just take a bomb, put it in an Air Lanka plane while it’s on the tarmac, and poof, one aeroplane gone, passengers gone, tourists disappear, the economy down.So, one-man-one-vote isn’t such a simple answer, is it? Now, it’s not just Sri Lanka. In Vietnam, the Buddhists in the 1950s and ‘60s under Ngo Dinh Diem—you remember President Ngo Dinh Diem. They poured petrol on themselves, lit themselves up. American TV took pictures of them, self-immolation, showed it on American TV. Ngo Dinh Diem got murdered. He may be wrong, but he was an honest man, not corrupt, anti-communist, devout Catholic. They knocked him out. Series of corrupt generals became the leader, place collapsed. And the Buddhists contributed to that.And right now, you know, against this accord between the President of Sri Lanka and the Prime Minister of India, the Buddhists were leading the fight. And you see what has happened in India. It was politics and religion that caused the breakup of India into Pakistan and India. No other way. Once you hold your belief so fervently—God is on my side—there is no other way. And you have a different God from mine, therefore we must part. And they have parted.And the Sikhs now want to do likewise because they started a new religion over 100 years ago. It’s not very different from Hinduism. It started off with Guru Nanak, and they have made it into a very powerful religion which gives spiritual comfort to the Sikhs throughout the world. And they are prepared to die for it. And terrorism now is an endless problem in India because they want Khalistan, which would mean a gradual dismembering of India.Therefore, the Indians very wisely decided that they cannot support the separation of Jaffna, north and east, from Ceylon, or from Sri Lanka. If they did that, they will be encouraging separation within India. So, it is in the interests of both countries and indeed in the interests of humanity that there should be a settlement. But in India itself, after 40 years of independence, every week, Hindus and Muslims clash and kill each other. And there’s rising Hindu militancy, reported to be a reaction against Muslim or Islamic fundamentalism. I don’t know what the causes are, but I read E. M. Forster’s Passage to India. That’s a book written about—the author was in India in the early 1920s, and I remember vividly there were riots between the Muslims and the Indians in this town, during Muharram, which was a special festival of the Muslims.So, we have to remember this. This is not widely known, but I think it is necessary that the Catholic priests and the Protestant preachers and the monks and temples’ priests, should know this. We have recently barred four Muslim preachers from Singapore.One was a Malaysian. Last year in November ’86. I won’t give his name, but he will recognise himself. He came here and to a crowd of 250 at a Prophet Muhammad’s Birthday celebration, he told them that Singapore belonged to the Malays, and that the Malays have become a minority, and they have become subservient, and they must unite against the majority. It’s a very unwise thing to say for a foreigner. But he had been here earlier. In January ’84, when he preached the theory that every mosque demolished as a result of urban renewal was a destruction of Allah’s house.Now November ’82, a South African Malay called Ahmed Hussein Deedat, he urged a congregation of 600; he said, be more militant. Compared with the South African Malays, he says the Singapore Malays are soft, they are complacent. Why are they complacent? They have failed to convert the Chinese to Islam. And he passed disparaging remarks about Christianity and said, ‘It’s a foolish religion.’ So he is barred. And many of the mosque committees who arranged these meetings are unhappy. But I’d rather have them unhappy than several thousand people get injured when these words are put to the test.Then there is something this year, January ’87. Indian Tamil Muslim called Palani Baba, otherwise known as Mohamed Ali Ahmad Ali Baba. He lashed out at his sponsors because the sponsors had advised him to speak only on religious matters. He, having been invited by the sponsors who told him to speak only on religious matters, in his opening speech he lambasted them and he bragged that he has been jailed repeatedly for championing the Islamic cause, i.e., he is prepared to be jailed by Singapore. Fortunately, it was not necessary. He went back. He was arrested and jailed in Tamil Nadu for anti-Hindi agitation. Saved us trouble.Do you think these are just fun and games? Let me tell you how this kind of talk leads to action. There was an Indonesian, Imaduddin Abdul Rahim. Very educated man, former lecturer, Institute of Technology, Bandung. Also taught in the University of Technology, Universiti Kebangsaan [Malaysia], Engineering [Department]. He came here in April ’73 and told a congregation, says, ‘Queenstown, Toa Payoh, I see church people piercing the sky and large non-Muslim prayer houses.’ He says Muslims and Malays are stooges and the Muslim ministers should take up the issue. In other words, you go see your MPs, twist his arm, he will twist the minister’s arm and something will happen.Well, he met a political science graduate of ours, Mohd Dzulfiqhar Mohamed. He met him in ’76, influenced him. Dzulfiqhar came back and formed an Ikhwan group. Ikhwan, what for? To establish a Muslim state, Islamic state in Singapore by revolutionary force. Fortunately, the five of them, leaders, were interviewed, were taken to ISD, interrogated and 16 of their followers who were being trained to increase the numbers, were called up with their parents and told of the hazards of embarking on such an adventure.This is not funny. And please do not assume that my laughter is because I take these subjects with levity. If one religion does it, those who do not do it will lose out whether it’s social action, economic policies whatever, they will also go into it. The end result is the dismemberment of our multi-religious community.So I urge them—churchmen, lay preachers, priests, monks, Muslim theologians, all those who claim divine sanction or holy insights, take off your clerical robes before you take on anything economic or political. Take it off, come out as a citizen or join a political party and it is your right to belabour the government. But you use a church or a religious publication and your pulpit for these purposes and there will be serious repercussions.We are not just another country. We are a very unlikely country. We all sang. Well, my colleagues and I, we sang. I hope you did too, some of you. ‘We are a nation strong and free. This is my country, this is my flag.’We are very vulnerable. If I tell you this, some of you may say, ‘Oh, of course, the prime minister must say this because he wants us all to shut up and be quiet, peaceful, docile citizens.’ No.An American who was a professor of political science and has studied Southeast Asia for over 25 years—I first met him when I went to Yale in the 1960s— he’s been on and off studying this place. He wrote a book recently and he sent me a copy. It’s called Southeast Asia and the Enemy Beyond by Professor Robert Tilman, Westview Press, and he is talking about ASEAN. He studies each ASEAN country, their threat perceptions, the nature of the political make-up of the country. And this is his concluding chapter.‘Geography, history, language and culture have all conspired against the countries of ASEAN to make their task of nation-building and economic development more difficult. Of the five countries considered here, only Thailand’—five because he did not study Brunei. Brunei came in late. He’s been studying these five countries— ‘only Thailand has any reasonable claim to nationhood described in its ideal form by Rupert Emerson as “a single people traditionally fixed on a well-defined territory, speaking the same language and preferably a language all its own, possessing a distinctive culture, and shaped to a common mould by many generations of shared historical experience”.’Just ask ourselves. Rupert Emerson is a Professor in Harvard [University]. He studied the Third World countries and he wrote his book in 1959.2 What makes a nation? A single people. Are we?I heard Jaafar Albar make a speech, a very powerful orator: ‘Satu negara, satu bangsa, satu bahasa, satu ugama, bersatu-padu.’ (One country, one people, one language, one religion, together as one.) That’s powerful stuff. He was making a speech as he sent the Tunku off to the Merdeka talks in 1955. I was there, and he nudged me and said, ‘Must give them a bit of pep talk.’ I thought to myself, this is a dangerous pep talk. Where am I? Satu bangsa means I’m already out, I’m disqualified. The next time he made such a powerful speech was at the Star Cinema, 5 milestone, Pasir Panjang Road. Shortly after that, riots on Prophet Muhammad’s Birthday.Defined territory, well, that we have. Same language, preferably a language on its own. We speak a minimum of two languages, none of them distinctively our own. And in a way, we have made something out of a difficult situation. We are not responsible for the English language. We leave that to the British and the Americans. But whatever it is, we adopt whether we like the British or the Americans. We adopt some of the two standards in spelling, in grammar, in pronunciations, etc. It doesn’t matter. But they will settle it.We are not responsible for the Chinese language and the future. I keep on telling all my debaters. I said even if Singapore disappeared from the face of this Earth, the Chinese language will roll on relentlessly. There are 1,000 million people and another 19 million in Taiwan and another 5–6 million in Hong Kong. It doesn’t depend on us. We just borrow. They will modernise, they will give it the computer language. Whatever it is, we just make use of it.We are not going to settle the Malay language. The Indonesians will settle that and the Malaysians. We just follow. We get the benefit. It’s like a cyclist behind a big container lorry. You see, he breaks wind for you and you take less effort.And Tamil has been going for 2,000 years. There are 50 million Tamils there. We just carry on whatever. If tomorrow they decide to do something new, well, we follow them.Distinctive culture, it will take a long time. But maybe one day, maybe. Common mould, shaped into a common mould by many generations of shared historical experience. We have been here only a hundred-plus years. And the majority is less than two generations.Let me give you another definition which Emerson made. ‘A nation is a community of people who feel that they belong together in the double sense that they share deeply significant elements of a common heritage and that they have a common destiny for their future.’ Right? We share a common past, we belong together to a double sense—common heritage, common destiny. I have pointed out to you the Hanyu Pinyin in Chinese.Can I have Table 7? The Chinese are not one people. Never mind Chinese and Indians, Chinese and Malays. Look at us the Chinese. Since 1983—the red is ’83, the blue is ’87—we have allowed parents to register their children’s names as they wish but we encourage, let’s go uniform. ’83—22% did Pinyin. ’87—12% did Pinyin. They thought, ‘No, no, no. That’s not a good idea.’ Why? If you go into Pinyin, your ancestors would be forgotten. So they have full name in dialect—39%. No change. Surname in dialect with name in Pinyin—personal name, given name. 39% went up to 50%. The addition came from here, you see. The ones who gave Pinyin to their surname decided no, no, this is not a wise thing. Why? I am Hakka. Why should I go and change it? By the spelling, you can tell a man’s clan.Before we taught Chinese all round, I could understand it. I thought maybe the English-educated didn’t understand. If you are a Chang, you are a Chang, if you’re a Lee, you’re a Lee. It doesn’t matter. Or a Hwang, you’re a Hwang. But a Hwang can be pronounced as Ng, or Wee, depending on what clan you are, or a Hwang. Or a Chang can be a Teo, and so on.These are deeply held senses of identity. How do they perceive them- selves? You can’t change that. I was once at a wedding at the Chinese Chamber of Commerce where a Teochew gentleman who was once our High Commissioner in Bangkok invited me. His son was marrying, and he had all his sons lined up. Tan Siak Kew says, ‘His number one son, his wife, Hokkien, not so good.’ But he didn’t say, ‘not so good’, but from the face you know, not really, you see, not really. Then another son. He said, ‘Oh, this is even worse because she doesn’t look Chinese, so this is really bad, a disaster this one.’ I think, I can’t remember, I mean, she was white, but I couldn’t remember, whatever it was. Then he says, Ah, this last one. ‘This new daughter-in-law, she’s Teochew.’ That he’s thoroughly approved of.Now, I thought that was quite instructive. But then one day, it became my turn. So I asked my son, I said, ‘You’re marrying this girl, what is she?’ This is most important. He says, ‘Oh, the father is Hakka.’ So it’s very good.We are vaguely yes, Chinese—Hanren—but within the Han people are many different sub-peoples, and very distinct characteristics, and I think they are not just prejudices. They are true. I know that Hakkas are hardworking. I know that they are tough, or they would not have survived. They came down late to the south, got all the hilly country. You either are tough and you learn the other fellow’s language and you make do or you won’t survive.This is what Bob Tilman has to say on the future. ‘The future is fraught with risks for every state in the region. The association’,—that means ASEAN—‘is a fragile organisation, and every state belonging to it is also fragile. Outside forces over which each has no control could lose centrifugal forces tugging at ASEAN unity.’ In other words, pulling it apart. Then he goes on to say, ‘Outside forces might also set off internal chain reactions’,—internal to each country—‘that could topple any of the current regimes and wipe out the gains of the last several years.’ That’s on page 159.Ask ourselves, do we become a nation? We must try, isn’t it. Is it easy? No. I helped draft that pledge that was incorporated into the song (sic) in 1966. I knew it was difficult. So I said we try. We brought it up in cabinet, discussed it, get it into the children, day in, day out. And we say clearly in the pledge, and I wrote these words, ‘regardless of race, language or religion’. I had not read Rupert Emerson or Robert Tilman. I had knocked about with trade unionists, heard Jaafar Albar’s speech.I’ve also heard Ng Aik Huan speak, Chinese Chamber of Commerce, a very powerful Hokkien speaker. One race, one language, one religion and you really got the crowd throbbing—100,000 people at the City Hall. In 1963, about the bones issue. You remember? He made a speech in Hokkien which had the crowd like that throbbing with him. They understood him, they felt with him, they shared his beliefs. But I thought to myself, where do we go?We are not Hokkiens, this is not Fujian Province. But we had to go through that intermediate stage. I learnt Hokkien and sweated blood. In my adult years, learn- ing strange new sounds, romanised.So, I understand the difficulties and I will tell you one of them. A younger generation has grown up not understanding any of this. I can see it in the voting patterns. The older generation knows that the PAP, any political party, to hold Singapore together, must have a balanced slate, right. Chinese candidates, Indian candidates, Malay candidates. And even the Chinese, we have a spread of them because we know all these dialect groups. But the last two elections, it’s quite clear that they are voting for the best qualified MP to look after their constituency. In other words, best qualified means not only the ablest but most convenient for the voter. He can talk dialect or Mandarin. In other words, Malay MPs will find it very difficult, or Malay candidates will find it difficult.What do we do? We wait for the backlash? There are only two, three Malay candidates who win? I think we shouldn’t. We ought to do something about it. How? Well, I’ve passed my views on. My younger colleagues are thinking about it. I said you can go to proportional representation. Then you divide the country permanently along language and racial lines.You can have nomination of Malay MPs to make up for the numbers that are not elected. No Malay MP wants to go in on those terms. And I think that’s right. We can have certain constituencies, say eight, nine designated as Malay candidates only. I think we are going to have very grave discontent from non-Malay constituents. Why my constituency? Please mark next door. It’s very natural. My interest, I want a candidate who will look after me. Or, what they are thinking about, team MPs. You have a Chinese candidate, you have a Malay candidate, or you have a Chinese candidate, you have an Indian candidate. So you can choose whichever MP you want to see. Something must be done. Some way must be found. Don’t wait for these problems to mount up.Accommodation and changes are part of life. We made special concessions to get here. Any mosque in a new town gets a piece of land at concession rates. Otherwise, they would not be able to build. MUIS cannot build those mosques. If MUIS has to pay what the churches and the temples pay the HDB for the land, they would not have those mosques. We [had to] give a concession. It’s discrimination against the majority in favour of a minority. But it was the right decision.You see these hare-brained lecturers coming here and saying, ‘I see steeples piercing the sky, knock them down. Every mosque that’s demolished. Allah’s house is being demolished.’ What kind of language is this? But our Malays can see in every new town, HDB goes out of their way to draft, to plan, to design after the wishes of the mosque committee, quite a variety of forms. I think it was right.But it is wrong for any Singapore Muslim theologian to go into the mosque or Prophet Mohammed’s Birthday celebration to utter any of those words. And I would like to believe, or I think the Singaporean knows what is likely to happen and therefore he has not done it, but he has arranged for foreign sermons and lecturers and preachers to say these things. Quite an artful way of arranging it because if he does it, something is going to happen. Right. And I make no bones about that because something disastrous will happen to Singapore.I do not assume that what is will always be. You know when we sang ‘Majulah Singapura’, what thoughts were going through my mind? In my short life, I have sung four national anthems. Please remember that. I have sung ‘God Save the Queen’, I have sung ‘God Save the King’ first, then ‘God Save the Queen’.Then 1942, the world became very black. So bleak the future looked, my heart just crumpled up. I said, ‘Oh, this is gone, for another thousand years if they win the war.’ I had to earn a living and every national celebration, we bowed deeply in the direction of Tokyo, and we sang the ‘Kimigayo’. Very solemn, serious, mournful, doleful tune, but very powerful rallying call—Kimigayo. This is not a laughing matter.Then lo and behold, the British came back, so back again, ‘God Save the Queen’. Then we entered Malaysia, ‘Negaraku’, which every time I sing that song, my ear goes back to Dorothy Lamor. Yes, because it’s one of the best pictures on the South Pacific that I have remembered seeing. When Dorothy Lamor sang ‘Terang Bulan’, made it world famous, the Tunku was in two minds. He was a very friendly man. So he discussed this with me. I said, ‘No, if it’s a good tune, it’s a good tune, Tunku. Don’t worry about it. People will forget about “Terang Bulan” and they will remember “Negaraku”’. And he is right except for oldies like me. Then we sing ‘Majulah’. Are you sure that this is the only anthem you will sing? Ask yourself that.There is a certain element of chance that goes with change that makes prediction of the future difficult. To get economic progress, you must solve the political equation and do not assume that Singapore is like any other country. It isn’t. It’s very special even within ASEAN. It’s very small and very vulnerable. And the more successful we are, the more vulnerable we become. It’s a contradiction in terms—if you are not successful, people say, ‘Oh poor chaps, have pity on them.’ But do you want people to have pity on you? But supposing they envy you. That’s also troublesome. But we want to be friends. Once we have this political equation awry, then we will be chasing each other’s tails and biting them, and you have an endless cycle of stupidities, recriminations and violence, like Sri Lanka.Thank you.