Friends and Fellow Citizens:Tuesday’s National Day [Parade] symbolised or summarised the stage that we have reached in Singapore. It was colourful, it was moving, and it was choreographed for TV. It’s part of the new age. It’s meant not just for the 60,000 there, but for the 1.5 million or 2 million watching. It’s a symbolic day for us. It summarises progress or retrogression year by year.The first few years, or the first 15 years really, the emphasis was on survival. Can we survive? Nobody assumes that’s a problem now. In 1965, all the wiseacres put a big question mark against Singapore. A British base island, former colony. How will it survive without a hinterland?You know, there are landmarks in my mind. It’s a little nick cut in my brain. 1969, there were riots in Kuala Lumpur—May the 13th. And there was a little unease that, you know, wild men may decide to reverse the Tunku’s decision to get us out of Singapore. So ’69, August the 9th, we thought better produce the tanks. We had been buying tanks, second-hand tanks—AMX-13. I thought better produce them in case. And it had a certain calming effect on the population of Singapore. They say, oh well, that’s alright then.The British, you know, were leaving in 1971. So we pushed hard. We had to have an air force. So 1971, first Hunters, Hawker Hunters flew at the parade. ’82, we went into Supersonics—F-5Es. ’87, we have Hawkeye.But now because it is alright, therefore, we say there’s no need for it. So we just have none. We just have a few helicopters to take the flag across the stadium.That is the kind of situation we have to work towards. So we move towards more spectator participation—national songs, community singing, a celebratory festival air, which is alright. But remember, this is Southeast Asia and storm clouds can gather very suddenly. So, please have umbrellas ready.There was a sense of well-being, a sense of achievement on Tuesday night. But it’s not just the show, you know. It’s not just getting people into the stadium and having rehearsed it. It’s actual life experiences before Malays, Indians, Chinese, Eurasians, others will sing, ‘This is my country, this is my flag’, and not feel cynical and think this is all imposition and hypocrisy. They must believe that this is their country. If you squeeze them, it cannot be. It’s because their life experience, what they experience in school, their workplace, their homes, their neighbours, they said, ‘Yes, this is right.’So there is a sense of fair play and in 1967, we relaunched community sing- ing. I’ve tried this for several decades. We tried it in the 1960s, couldn’t take off. Too many languages and they didn’t take to it. I asked Dr. Goh, how is it that we have an army that doesn’t march with songs. Every army must sing. When it’s discouraged, it’s got to sing to keep its morale up. We have no songs. So I say, ‘Right. Get the songbook writer, get songs, try it.’ When they leave National Service, they stop singing. 1970s, we restarted. I said, ‘No, this cannot be.’ I said, ‘Try it in the schools, start in the schools.’ This time it took off. I have been round to some community centres and it’s fulfilled a certain emotional need, partly because we are now moving towards one language. We all understand English more or less. And Chinese singing Indian songs no longer look absurd. It’s become part of the landscape, which is a good thing.Of course, if you are a, you know, cynical westerner, foreign journalist, you look at all this, you say, ‘What’s all this corny, sentimental taking of the pledge’, but it’s not, you know. It’s very important. I read a woman in The Business Times saying she used to take part in the parades and so on. Now she thinks all this is really past her. Well, yes, that is a sophisticated lofty sort of view. But to build a sense of commitment to one another to share certain experiences, that is important. Then we are Singaporeans.But I want to add a word of caution. When things are getting better, better jobs, better homes, better clothes, from buses to MRT, to better buses, it’s easy because there is more to share—more slices, bigger slices of the cake. When things go down, there is competition.You take the British—English, Scots, Welsh, Irish. One hundred and fifty to two hundred years of empire, there was no Scots nationalism, no Irish nationalism, well, there was but no Welsh nationalism. Empire gone by the 1960s. They are back to the United Kingdom, a small group of islands, competition. Oil off Aberdeen. The Scots say, ‘Why, why, this is my oil? Why is London Westminster taking this?’So, it is not easy. Remember, to build a nation is not to build a modern high-rise. It’s like building the pyramids.You take the Americans. They went to a civil war, 1776. Declaration of Independence. Ninety years later, in 1860s, civil war. Whites versus whites. North versus South. Both sides using blacks. Part of the reason was slavery of the South. You take within a country, blacks and whites in America. World War I, the blacks were stretcher-bearers. World War II, they fought as combat. Buddies in the trenches of North Africa, Italy, second front—Western Europe. You go back, the blacks go to Harlem or whatever is the black area of Chicago or Detroit, and the whites go back to the suburbs, or wherever they live.So remember, it’s not something that can be done over- night. Yes, we took 30 years to be able to have that kind of a feeling of being one community on Tuesday night. This is my nation, but a fragile one. Don’t put it under too much stress.What makes a nation succeed, makes it prosperous? Its wealth and strength, its progress, its advancement. Its achievement depends, first and foremost, upon the quality of its people, next, the quality of its leaders, next, the natural resources of the territory, which the tribe or the nation has. And the cohesiveness of the group that’s able to make the best out of that territory, the level of education it achieves, the level of technology, the capital equipment it has, its infrastructure.How did we get here? I’ve been at this job ten years. I did not do a course in government. But if I did not learn and argue and read and talk and analyse and get to the basics, we wouldn’t have got here. We had a group of men who were committed to getting things done because we believed we had assumed that responsibility, and if we didn’t discharge it, calamity will be our responsibility.Well, first of all, we were lucky. We had an energetic people, high-learning speed. They had stamina. They had endurance. They had a high threshold for pain. And their Asian cultures put society above self, above the individual.So we made it, with just one location, no natural resources, just a location. I am not saying it’s an ordinary location. If we move Singapore into the South Pacific, we’ll be lucky if we can maintain a population of 100,000. You know, catching fish, you may have 200 miles of EEZ, you know, economic zone, or whatever. You are entitled to the fish, the dolphins and the tuna. That’s very big trouble.But there was one other imponderable which we had—intangible. Without Malaysia, those two years, we could not have made it. Because the place was too fractious, too quarrelsome; the communists were too powerful, too many strikes, too many troubles. Two years in Malaysia taught everybody a real lesson. That if we want to survive, we submerge our differences and get going.So after Separation, strikes went down. Chinese chauvinism declined. Less trouble. We got the economy going. And the first thing we insisted upon was honest, efficient government, which means honest, effective ministers because without that, you can’t have honest, efficient civil servants. It’s just not possible. And to have honest, efficient ministers, you must have honest MPs—people who can mobilise, inspire their constituents, their people as worthy of trust and leadership. In other words, dedicated men.You know, if we had an opposition that’s also like us—honest, dedicated, efficient—we can argue, we can disagree, but either way it goes, it’s safe. The country will not fall apart. But when that is not the case, and that has never been the case in my 30 years of active life in politics, we have to be extremely careful because one toss of the coin, it comes out tails, it’s finished. One five-year term and it’s finished.Let me explain why I think the electorate, and I hope the younger people are listening to me, you cannot have double standards. If you expect good government, efficient government, honest government and you expect that of PAP MPs, you must put the same yardstick against the opposition, or you are inviting trouble, or you are putting it on the PAP to keep on exposing and debunking. And if you elect such a person, you are sending a signal that we don’t mind a dishonest chap so long as he can create pressure and mischief and all is well. That’s not a very good trend.I know these MPs of the PAP would be a little embarrassed, but I want to tell you how we have managed to do this. It’s not just the original team that stood up to the communists and were not intimidated. You need a lot of guts to stand up against them in 1959 and 1963. We have been able to self-renew with people in the 1980s, people who go in and suffer losses as a result, but feel it is a public duty.I give you the doctors—Dr. Dixie Tan, Dr. Arthur Beng, Dr. Tan Cheng Bock, Dr. Koh Lam Son. Before they even became MPs, I asked them, are you sure you want to do this because it takes time. That means less time for your practice, and they are all in private practice. It means money, and going to the constituency and running around is not money. It’s loss of money. There are problems.So we tried to change the sitting times. We used to meet in the afternoon, from two o’clock. That’s awkward. So alright, we moved down to eleven o’clock. We even thought of just in the morning so that they will be free in the afternoons. Each one is a sacrifice, a real sacrifice because it means loss of personal contact. And a doctor is very much like a dentist, very personal relationship. And I have to see some of them, like I saw Dixie Tan the other day.I said, ‘Why not stand again?’ Because it hurt her practice more than she thought it would. Just call it a day, go back. She’s not going to be a minister, she’s not going to have fame and glory. She’s just looking after one constituency. But it is important.In a crisis, you are 1 out of 79 votes. As a citizen, you are 1 out of 1.3 million votes. That’s the difference. And you’ve got to have good men.You take the lecturers—Dr. Aline Wong, Dr. Ow Chin Hock. Constituency work means less research work. Less research papers published means less promotion prospects. This is Singapore. The Senate is not interested whether you are an MP or not, the Senate of the university. Where are your papers?You take Lim Chee Onn. I had to persuade him. He has no time. He’s got to make Keppel and his job a success. He’s got to put his heart in it. This is taking time off. I had to persuade him, ‘Look, this is important.’ In safe, peaceful times, no. In a crisis, he has been a minister, he has been secretary-general of the NTUC. You know what the problems are. You are one backbencher amongst other backbenchers, and you have to decide which way the country is going.Bernard Chen, he can just go full time, Fraser and Neave, better. Why running for $3,000 allowance, or $3,300 something allowance, eating into his time? But it is important.I’ve not mentioned the others just because they are too long a list. But nobody ekes a living out of this. That’s not the basis on which we choose men. And that goes for the next generation that we are putting in.You have read about Brigadier-General Yeo, George Yeo. I don’t know. I mean if he had known this at the beginning, he might have thought otherwise. He has had to pay $60,000 in liquidated damages for resigning before his bond is complete. And he’s lost $80,000 of his pension, which could have been converted into CPF because he is not allowed to retire in the public interest. He is retiring because he wants to go into politics. That’s $143,000. Right?So, you don’t make such decisions lightly. You’ve read Nasser Kamaruddin, the SBC1 announcer. He is leaving and he is going to pay $8,000 because he’s not completed his bond.Let me explain how it could be otherwise. And once it is otherwise, it’s very difficult. Once money is the motivation, then you can say anything to please the electorate. You get in, you clean up.You have read today’s newspapers. Vice-President Laurel accuses Mrs. Aquino of corruption in the bureaucracy. ‘Resign’, says he. Incompetent, corruption. Well, but there is no hint that Mrs. Aquino is corrupt, which is a great help. But the people she appointed, also in today’s Sunday Times, the Presidential Commission for Good Government, PCGG, they are supposed to trace and chase and get all the assets which the Marcos crowd, Marcos and his cronies had run away with. Get the money back, charge them. They have now got hold of some of the properties and they are hanging on to it. My, this is so quick.And you read Senator Shahani, Shah Shahani, today’s Sunday Times. He said, ‘No unit in the government is untouched by corruption, not even the foreign service.’ Not even the foreign service. And I met Senator Shahani, Shah Shahani in 1986. She is General Ramos’s sister. She was working in the foreign service, helping Vice-President Laurel when he was the Foreign Minister. So she ought to know.Once it gets endemic like that, that’s very big trouble. You need more than Mrs. Aquino to clean it up. How to clean up? You put $1 in, expenditure, budget $1. As it goes down the tube, it’s siphoned off. Lucky if you get 20 cents reaching the ground.China under the KMT in the last stages was such a mess till the communists came in—clean, dedicated, eager beavers. And Howe Yoon Chong told me that his sister who was in a village in Meixian was very impressed when they first came in. They helped to repair your houses, they helped to harvest your crops, etc.Now, after 40 years—not quite 40 years, next year will be 40 years of communist rule—corruption is a problem, very serious problem. And when they go abroad, you will see in the newspapers today, they have been having a peek at peep shows, blue films, all sorts of revelry. So now if they are found doing that, something dreadful is going to happen when they come back. Who will spill the beans on who in the show in Las Vegas, I don’t know. But that’s the warning.What’s the lesson for us? Keep it clean, keep it honest. It is an absolute asset. It can be lost very easily in two, three years—just the wrong example, and right down your line. Why should my secretary be working overtime and not getting overtime pay? And he sees me having a quiet chat with somebody, and I get a bag of golf clubs. You open the bag where the golf balls ought to be, there is a nice leather sachet; inside are diamonds.Well, these are normal gifts between big people. You want a loan, if you have got a golf bag, open the pouch where the white balls should be, you find nice shining diamonds. That’s nothing, a small sum.I mean, you’ve got to be realistic. Get honest men, pay them adequately as near market rates what they are earning as possible. You are never able to catch up because the public sector cannot move and adjust with rapidity. The private sector can. Boom, you go up. Depression, you take a cut. That’s not possible in government, so you are always catching up.I read Mr. Jek Yuen Thong today in the Sunday Times. I call this a “Long March” syndrome. Yes, he was in the long march. Yes, a group who were not part of the long march has taken over. Yes, they are paid more than he was paid when he was a minister. What sense does it make to denigrate it as a weakness? Is it?Tony Tan has given up a job, which could have got him half a million a year by now in the bank. I made a discreet inquiry on who’s paid what. Right? Why should he be doing this for $200,000 a year? Why should Ong Teng Cheong be doing this since 1970—he was an MP in ’72, I think he became minister in ’75—why should he be doing this? There has been a construction boom, and architects make in the hundreds of thousands, if not in the millions. Why should Richard Hu give up his job in the MAS?We have moved into different times, and we have got to keep the system practical and viable. But you’ve got to keep it clean. What is the sum involved to pay the market rate? Piffle. The whole cabinet, the whole government, less than 15 million a year. You underpay, you want to make a show of it—they do this in America—and you see what happens.North Singer, charged for something or the other. Michael (Deaver), up for some awful charge. He went and started canvassing immediately with important Secretaries of the Environment on acid rain on behalf of the Canadians and so on. And he told lies to Congress about what took place. I think it’s unkind. Why charge him? That was the system. He worked for President Reagan for six years, and got a pittance. Here was a chance, two more Reagan years. He’s got access to all personal friends whom he has worked with—Secretaries of Defence in the Pentagon, Secretary of State in the State Department, Secretary of Education, Transport, and so on. And you fix him.Well, I don’t know. But I do know, as a result, it’s a very difficult system to operate. It is a different system. Unfortunately, he was not a lawyer. If he was a lawyer, if Michael Deaver or North Singer were lawyers, he would have joined a legal firm and it would have been alright. Instead, he started his own firm as a lobbyist and he got into trouble.But besides honest government, you’ve got to have other things too—industrial peace, good industrial relations, which is what we have achieved. But it needs tend- ing, nurturing. You need to concentrate on education, training. You need a cooperative environment, both internally and in the region, with our neighbours in ASEAN.Here, let me recall a thought that came to my mind as I watched the colours march past at the parade, you know those colours of the regiments and the armed forces. If you watch the British colours, or you watch German colours, they’ve got emblems on the colours to show the great battles that that particular regiment, or that particular force had taken part in. I looked at that. I said, ‘All clean backgrounds’.It’s like our fighter planes. There’re no pictures of other little targets that they have shot down. You see the medals that they wear, all for sky jumping, or deep sea diving, or whatever. No campaign ribbons. 1 Singapore Infantry Regiment (SIR) and 2 SIR took part in Konfrontasi in Sabah, it’s one campaign ribbon. I think they were in Sabah for a while and they went up to Johore looking for some parachuters. But we keep it that way.I know that in Israel each colour is studded with glory. When I went down to the National Day Parade reception after the parade, the Israeli Ambassador, Israel Eliashiv, came up to me and congratulated me. ‘This marvellous place, good parade, marvellous place, Singapore. I was here in 1969’, he says. He was talking of the time when he sat down next to me and how we discussed these things and the other. He meant it. So I said to him, ‘We are at peace, you are at war. If you make peace, you settle peace with the Arabs, West Bank and Gaza Strip, you’ll be immensely better than we are.’Such talented people with 700–800% inflation at one time, just a few years ago. So there’s a lesson here.Yes, we learn from them how to use a civilian population totally for total defence. But we also use our own common sense. Do we need constant warring? Absolutely not. Do we need a strong defence? Absolutely yes. Then you have no constant warring.So when I said to him, ‘Look, settle West Bank and Gaza.’ He said, ‘But you know, the PLO is out to destroy Israel.’ I said, ‘Yes, yes, I’ve heard the whole argument. I’ve read long articles on it.’ There are books written on the matter. It’s so complex. It goes back so long. Some time, some place, somebody’s got to say, ‘Look, this is not worth it. Let’s take a risk at peace because the other way is to risk another war.’ But that’s the way life is.So, as far as we are concerned, never, never, never ever get bemused by all these campaign ribbons. I’ve watched Lieutenant-General Winston Choo since he was, I think, a captain, major, aide-de-camp to Yang di-Pertuan Negara, Encik Yusof Ishak. And he’s grown more and more soldier-like with the years. He looks superb on National Day. I congratulated the Minister of Defence. It is important.But let me tell you why I think he does a service, not because he has got one campaign ribbon. He took part in Konfrontasi. All the others are jumping from the sky, and shooting rifles, and so on. But I tell you what we should be grateful for.You know all these beautiful sashes he wears, all these huge medals. They are not Singaporean ones, you know. We don’t make such big shining, sparkling medals. I have told the Head of the Civil Service we’d better do something. This was when we were poor. We make small medals, and it’s somewhat out of tune and out of sync with the rest of the region. But each of the countries that are important to us, he’s got a big gong from, which is a very good achievement. They like him. He represents the Singapore Armed Forces. They have no doubt as to his good and honourable intentions and they trust him.I think that’s a plus. So not only must a Singapore commander know his job as a soldier, he’s also got to know his job as a good Southeast Asian citizen.I want now to take three examples of where we have made progress, because we took tough decisions on very sensitive and spiky, difficult issues, but they were right decisions. So we have progress.First, you know, I showed you just now in the Chinese [speech], the decline in birth rates. I’ll go through with it quickly. Can I have Chart 1? You see how we have improved. 19% birth increase in ’88 against ’87. In ’87, we had 6% increase over ’86, which registered a minus 8%.Now, Chart 2. This gives the different ethnic figures. Dragon Year—22% for Chinese. Last year, no, ’86, I think was Tiger Year, minus 11%. You look at the Malays. They were not bothered about Tiger Year. They had a plus 2%. And this is not a Dragon Year for them, they had plus 11%. The Indians had minus 6% in Tiger Year. But this year, they did plus 15%.Chart 3. This gives us a simple picture of whether we are reproducing our- selves. How many children does one woman produce? The Malays, they are produc- ing 2.3. That means more than replacing themselves. The Indians, 2.1, which is just replacing themselves. The Chinese, 1.8, not replacing themselves.Chart 4. This gives one reason why the birth rates are as they are. It shows how many have third and fourth child. Malays 19%, 11%. 19%, third child, 11%, fourth child. Indians less, 17%, third child, 5%, fourth child. Chinese, 15%, third child, 3%, fourth child.Now, this is a worrying reflection of what takes place because the chances are if you go into multiples of four and beyond, that means you are not working. Working women do not have such high order births.Chart 5. This gives the reason why the breakdown is as it is. Age of marriage. The Malays about three years younger than the others. Now, it does not really represent the true position because, I think, Indians marry slightly younger than Chinese.But we’ve had to join the two because the Registry of Marriages does not bring them up. So if you break them into Malays, Chinese, Indians, the picture will be grimmer.Chart 5A, this shows mean age of first baby. And if you look at it, you’ll see Malays at 24.7, Indians 26, Chinese 27.8. You start later, you have less, less troubles.But because we were prepared to take this out into the open, the issue was raised. It’s spiky. It’s uncomfortable. It’s sensitive. But we are getting comprehension in the population. They know it’s not a funny joke. It has long-term implications and it’s turning around. And I hope next year, although it’s no more Dragon Year, we are not going to go back into minus.Next, the singles problem. Can I have Chart 6? This is the Social Development Unit. It started in ’84. You remember the issue that was first raised? Membership 1,395, no marriages. ’85, it had increased. Some marriage—’86, ’87, ’88. 516 mar- riages and nearly 7,000 participating.But it’s more than that. It shows that people understand. This is not embarrassing. It is not a slight on them as individuals. It’s a whole group of people trapped by too rapid a transformation of our society. Educated women, educated men in equal numbers in each category. The men still stuck with ancient customs and culture and marrying down. And it’s not just the graduates. The worst off are the A-Level girls.Can I have Chart 7? You see, more girls involved. Total number of A-Levels, 84,000 unmarried, and only 5,000 are inside that programme. And because it’s just started, very few marriages.Chart 8, this is O-Levels. But they are not so much of a problem. This is new. Their marriage rates are low, but I will show you a table later, which will show why it’s not a problem. The O-Level girl, their supply is less than their demand.Chart 9 please. Now you watch this marriage pattern. This is for grooms— tertiary. Right? Here they marry downwards. Lower. Here they marry their equals. Now you see the progress we have made.In 1983, 37% of graduates married graduate girls. In 1988, 52%. In other words, a 15%-increase in five years. 3% a year. Very slow, very painful, but progress. Right?Now, in the same way, from marrying down 63%, looking for brides who are not graduates, now 48%. A-Levels, same—29% in ’83, now 35%. O-Levels, 57% married their equals, now 59%. Primary and others, 84% married equals, now 70%.So, there’s a slight movement up all along the way, which will help solve this problem.Can I have Chart 10? This gives a very chilling picture. I’ll explain it simply.On the left side, this column, is males minus females of all those who are singles. Right? Tertiary, A, O, primary, of all those who are singles. Now, here you have minus means, that means more girls in tertiary. This is discovered by a survey. So you have more girls than men. A Levels, you have more men than girls. But you look at primary, very many more men than girls, because many men can’t find wives at all. All the primary girls have been taken up. O-Level boy marries primary girl, primary boy got nobody to marry. Look at that. You look at this—university, A, O, and you look at this.There’s one little comment I want to read from Dr. Aileen Aw. She sent me this report. I said would you mind if I read it. She said, ‘No, go ahead.’ This is her task. She said, ‘It’s improving, people are aware, widespread support.’ The private sector, the firms are doing it on their own, recreational clubs and so on. And it’s being decentralised. The statutory boards are also doing it on their own. But she added: the task ahead is that of reconciling the expectations of the men and women with respect to their life partners—reconciling the expectations of men and women with respect to their life partners. It comes down to rationalising their fantasies with realism.So she has a long list of all the desirable things a girl wants in a husband. He must be good, he must not drink, he must not smoke, he must be kind, and so on and so forth. There aren’t such people to be found because they go through the forms of their fantasies not there. So the men put their hopes of the girls they want to marry. She must be young. The man is 38, he wants to marry a girl who’s 25. She must be friendly, smiling, cheerful disposition, and so on. You run through the women’s list, they are not there.Let’s settle for what we are. You look at your brother, look at your cousins, that’s what’s on the market. If you go by SBC drama, you’re in trouble. You will spend the rest of your life looking for a dream husband, who isn’t there, and for a girl that does not exist except with very careful make-up.Now let me explain why I think we ought to gradually shift up those num- bers. Because if we look at our achievement in education, you’ll know why we have succeeded.Can I have Chart 11? You look at the progress.1978, the year before Dr. Goh Keng Swee took over education and revamped it, lots of caustic comments made, but you look at the results. ’78, ‘79% passed PSLE. ’87, 92%. O-Levels from 27%, now doubled to 54%. A-Levels from 9% more than doubled to 22%. How did we do it?First, learning at the same speed. In other words, the teacher must be talking to a class that’s going at the same pace. Call it what you like, but it’s not wrong to stream. If you can’t go at an express speed, go at a normal speed. If you can’t go at a normal speed, go slightly slower, but you will make it. The dropout rate has gone down. Then we have better teachers, more graduates, more A-Levels, more graduates for secondary schools, more A-Levels for primary schools. And we have got video, audio, computers, better school premises.Now Chart 12, university places. You look at the figures. ’78, 2,002, 4% of the cohort—of the cohort means 12 years ago, they entered primary school, they finished A-Levels, and they are in university. In ten years to ’88, we have gone up to 5,005, nearly 5,006, to 13%—three times the cohort, more than three times the cohort, nearly two-and-a-half times in numbers.You can’t fault the Minister of Education for not providing places. Now I’ll tell you the complaint, why parents think we should have more places. Because they have been able to get into some British universities. Why? Because there are compelling monetary reasons for the British universities to take in overseas students. They are short of money. And these are statements from British publications.The first one is an overseas student policy in Britain by the Overseas Student Trust. And they say openly, institutions to have more flexible criteria and quicker procedures for admission of overseas students. In other words, we are short, let’s be flexible. Take them even if they are below the standard you require of a British student because the British student doesn’t give you money. You have to get it from the government. The overseas students have to pay.This policy led to criticism in their newspapers. This is from the Times Higher Education Supplement of 6 November ’87.She quotes, ‘There have been accusation’, notes Lynn Williams of the Overseas Student Trust, ‘that in their zeal to corner a share of the overseas market, some recruiters have employed methods more befitting car salesmen than representatives of an academic institution.’ Right? They want your money, they are short, they take you in.Then Times Higher Education Supplement, 15 April ’88. The chairman of the Association of University International Liaison Officers, Mr. John Belcher of Queen Mary College, called on the British Council to outlaw British universities, which offered places to overseas students with A-Level grades lower than those acceptable in the United Kingdom.Now, with that policy, you want us to go down? When we take a foreign student, we make sure that he is at least 10% points better than the Singaporean. This may be temporary, this difficulty, because they may shrink their university places. Or it may go on because they may discover this is a good way of earning money.Next question is, having reduced admission standards, do they reduce graduation standards? If they do, which is possible. If they don’t, then the supply will dry up. Because you know, you can get in, you fail two, three times and you have to get out. Then people hear about that and no more join. But if you do get a degree, that means we will have to start re-examining students or graduates from those universities. That’s the only answer. But in any case, the Minister, Dr. Tony Tan, has prepared more places in the university in two years, three years. 1991, Nanyang Technological Institute will become a full university with another two to three thousand places extra. But that doesn’t mean we’ll lower our admission standards. We will have the places. But if you don’t have those standards, you want to go to a sub-standard degree course elsewhere, that is another matter.Can I take the next chart, 13? This is our equally important segment of our educational system. Vocational and Industrial Training Board, you see, is going up. Poly, from 2.8% to 7.6%. And EDB, seven institutes—Japanese, German, French, Tata, Brown, Bovary. Seven of them altogether, 1,800. If we are going to make it into the next stage, we must have more of these people. Everybody has to be trained for the job he is going to do. You can’t just go in with a general education.Chart 14. This is just an update of how we have progressed since ’84. Home owners from 72%, now to 81%.Chart 15. This is by households, 3-rooms, 4-rooms, 5-room [flats]. You will see the quality—how the 4-rooms are increasing. That’s why Nee Soon has got so many 3-rooms untaken. HDB did not anticipate that people’s incomes would go up and they will aspire to 4-rooms. And so they overbuild 3-rooms. And 4-rooms and 5-rooms will go up.Chart 16. This is how much we have gone up by in spite of a lower CPF. This is the total in the bank—$31 billion as against $23 billion, four years ago. And per account holder, from 12,000 to 15,000. Every account holder is $3,000 more after paying for all instalmentsChart 17. This is all wage earners’ incomes divided by the number of wage earners. ’84 over ’80, 38% increase. ’88 over ’84, 12%. There’s a lesson there. It’s because in ’85, in ’86, we had two bad years. ’85, you will remember, nearly minus 2%. ’86, a very weak recovery. So two years got wiped off.I think the lesson is: when we are doing well, don’t push it to the limit. If we did not have the recession, we would have made more than 12%. But now that we are back on course, I recommend don’t push it to the limit, because if something goes wrong with the American economy, or demand in Japan and America next year or year after, we’ll have another unpleasant adjustment. Just leave something in reserve, leave it in the flexi[ble] part, in the year-end variable.I now want to go on to a rather important part of our lives—this transformation in the nature of our society. One reason why we are successful is because of the flexibility of the software, the culture. Let me explain.I borrow this phrase from a book, the title of a book by three American scholars on East Asian societies. It’s called Tradition and Transformation. Three scholars, Reischauer, Fairbank and Craig, did the history of China, Korea, Japan, Vietnam.And tradition was what they were, the framework, the rigid framework, the skeleton, and transformation is the content. And the following countries made it besides Japan. Japan was special—she did it on her own—but the following made it because they had external influences. Singapore, a British outpost for many years. Hong Kong, similarly. Taiwan and Korea, both with Japanese inputs, the modernising impact.For us, it’s good to recognise that we are becoming, each one of us is more or less bicultural, as we are more or less bilingual. It doesn’t mean that if you are bilingual, you are bicultural, because you can speak ten languages and just have one set of value culture, the one that you are born with. But by and large, you tend to be influenced by the language that you are talking in, and reading in and using.I have extracts from a book by Professor Francois Grosjean of Northeastern University and it’s published in 1982.3 He says, ‘Unlike bilingualism where two languages can be kept separate, biculturalism does not usually involve keeping two cultures and two individual behaviours separate.’ What does it mean?You have two languages, yes, but there are two separate languages. You can’t mix Chinese and English. They are two different languages. Some people do as they talk. Some of my Chinese-educated MPs, sometimes they throw in an English word, when they talk Chinese to me.But in culture, you cannot. Your value shifts. You cannot have two measuring sets. And the common, the more common is the person, who combines traits of two different cultures.I’ll read an instance, an example to tell you how such people are special, but, in fact, many of us are like that. ‘Many people in contact with two cultures may at first seek to belong solely to one or the other, but with time, they realise that they are most at ease with people who share their bicultural experience.’As an Arab-American writes, ‘At home in the Middle East, I am seen as the Americanised Arab, and in America I am seen as an Americanised Arab by people, that have come to realise that they are Americanised Arabs also. Therefore, almost anywhere I go, I make sure my world is full of Americanised Arabs.’ What does it mean? He is Arab but he is American. When he goes to Middle East, they say no, this chap is not a real Arab.That’s a Singaporean. You can speak Mandarin, you go to China, they know you are not Chinese. You are a Singaporeanised Chinese. You have taken in a lot of Western influence and also Southeast Asian influence. And you are mostest at home with those who share that background.But the key point to remember is that point between East and West, between Chinese and American or British values, or Southeast Asian values, differs with each individual. The more Chinese-educated you are, generally speaking, the more Chinese in your cultural values. But it need not necessarily be so. It depends a lot considerably on the home influence.We suffer from a serious hazard, which Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea do not. In Hong Kong, the British western influence is superficial. The top people know English and they speak English, but it is a Chinese-speaking, Cantonese- speaking, Chinese-values society. Everybody speaks Cantonese, they are at home in Cantonese. You watch their television, you watch their newspapers, 90% of their television time is in Cantonese. Their newspapers, the English newspapers cater to the foreigners and the sprinkling of Hong Kong Chinese. The bulk of it are Chinese newspapers. So there is no danger of being overwhelmed, of having your original culture displaced.Our danger is that we’ve got so much of EL1 (English as a First Language), books, newspapers, magazines, TV that we could become a pseudo-western society, not a real western society. If you are a real western society, that’s another matter. But you become a pseudo-western society, a fake one. That’s a disaster.There’s no harm in having first names called Terry, or Maxim, or whatever. It’s alright, it’s convenient. Your boss finds it convenient. And anyway, without the British now being in charge, it no longer is a sign of subordination. It’s just fashion- able. I read all kinds of fancy names. But it’s a frame of mind. Right?My grandfather was dominated by the white man. He was a purser on board a steamer running between Singapore and Indonesia, and the captain was a white man. The shipping company was a Chinese-owned shipping company. The sugar king of Java, Oei Tiong Ham, he owned it. But the captain must be a white man. So he was thoroughly convinced that they weresuperior. So he gave me the name Harry. My brothers, too, each had one. When I grew up and I decided no, this white man is not imposing this on me. I did not use it. I don’t mind my friends calling me that. My mother calls me that. It doesn’t matter. But I call myself Lee Kuan Yew. That is important.I read today in The Straits Times, about the English language in the Philippines. You read it. The Philippine Senate Commission, a committee to find out what’s gone wrong with the Filipino people. And one of the things they consider wrong is English as the medium of education, which ‘has de-Filipinized the youth and taught them to regard American culture as superior’. The fact that doing so means using a foreign language, which foreigners can easily handle better, leads to an inferiority complex. ‘Americans set up a public school system where we learned English and the American way of life. Present-day media reinforce these colonial influences and the Filipino elite sets the example by their western ways . . . Mass media reinforces our colonial mentality. Advertisements use Caucasian models and emphasising the product’s similarity with imported brands as part of our daily lives.’I don’t think it’s as bad as all that, and I don’t think we are going to be so demoralised or suffering from an inferiority complex. But the antidote is very important. The problem is with the upper crust. Many people believe, those who read the English newspapers and especially the foreign publications—you know, the offshore press—that that segment at the top represents Singapore. It does not.That’s the lower down you go, from the overseas-educated to the Singapore- educated to the Chinese-educated, to the Malay-educated, and even now to the English-educated but who are basically Chinese, Malay and Tamil in their attitudes at home, the less are these values accepted. So, regardless of the language and the sentiments in the newspapers, there is the ground undertow of your society. And it is our business to keep that undertow Asian.If you look at Asiaweek, there’s an English edition, there’s a Chinese edition called Ya Zhou Zhou Kan, totally different. We have gazetted Asiaweek, but we have not [done it for] Ya Zhou Zhou Kan. Its attitudes are different. It’s got Chinese editors. It’s reporting on the same events. The English newspaper will take an opposition point of view and splash it all over as if it is the point of view. The Chinese version says, this is what they say, but this is the total picture. There is no attempt at sensationalising. It’s always straightforward reporting, none of the strident, antagonistic approach of the West. It’s a different culture.And therefore, we have to preserve our society from being transformed. And when you have this offshore press trying to set the pace, we say, ‘Off with thee. This is my society. You are not reporting me to your audience in America, or Britain, or Australia. You are reporting me to me. You are influencing attitudes.’Americans consider all political leaders potential crooks and criminals. No, they start off [as one]. You are elected, dangerous man, likely to be dishonest crook. Find more about him. And they write in derogatory terms.That’s not acceptable in Asia. When people are elected to office here, they are respected. They are not held in contempt.I give an illustration of the difference over the arrest of the Marxists last year and the re-arrest this year. If you read the Western press, it’s a tremendous event. The government was about to collapse. Every day, hordes of denunciatory telegrams. We are showered. We are under siege. That’s rubbish, isn’t it?This government was never threatened. At the very height of the controversy, we could take a vote and win comfortably. And indeed, with straw polling, we knew exactly what the ground was. Because there is a deep subterranean Asian set of values.And why this fuss? Because for the first time, an English-educated group was involved in a law, the Internal Security Act, which hitherto had always been used against Chinese-educated, or Malay-educated extremists, and so on. Well, but there are no more Chinese-educated Marxists. They have all become English-educated. That doesn’t mean they have ceased to become ideologically radicals or Marxists. It is the tenderness of the English-educated, to the English-educated. They just find it difficult to reconcile themselves.But this is not funny. Why should I, having received reports of what was going on and knowing that Jayakumar, Minister for Home Affairs, had spoken to the Archbishop, and his Permanent Secretary had spoken two previous times, he himself once, three times, and Vincent Cheng was still merrily using the church as a front and doing these things. I spoke to the Pope when he came here in November ’86. It wasn’t for fun. It’s a very serious business.If it begins to grow, and we can’t move because the church is involved and we appear to be anti-church, there’s going to be big trouble down the road. And when after that, they still did not do anything, we had to move. It’s unpleasant. You’re ruffling people up. They’re no threat to us, they’re not going to defeat us in the next election. But given time and more such groups, five years down the road, there’ll be a lot of trouble. Because, remember, we are not a unit in isolation.This subversion is a Malaysian–Singapore entity. The Communist Party of Malaya is Singapore–Malaysia, together. They are not going to start a revolution in Singapore. The conditions have changed beyond recognition. But they believe they can start one in Malaysia.And the groups that were coming back from Tan Wah Piow’s FUEMSSO, Federation of United Kingdom Students’ something or the other. They were fanning out one small group from Singapore, the majority in Malaysia. And the Internal Security Department and the Malaysian Special Branch regularly keep in contact, and say, look, what’s going on. And they are in contact. If you are just creating prob- lems for Singapore, why are you linking up with Malaysians? What’s it all about? Right?Now, of course, they come up with a statement, says, it’s all their legal right, completely innocent. Is it? Manipulating the Hammer, which was a publication of the Workers’ Party, and not taking responsibility on the editorial board, moving into the Workers’ Party and running campaign elections but not becoming members.Going into the Law Society, having met Mr. Paul Lim on behalf of Tan Wah Piow, to get the Law Society involved in what? In lawyers’ interests? No. In political interests. Newspaper publications. What business is that of lawyers? If you use the Law Society, a professional group, to attack the government, at the very least, the government must defend itself. That means the whole Law Society representing lawyers is involved.They don’t do that in Britain. You don’t get the Law Society getting involved in political issues. They get involved in professional issues.But if you read the offshore press, who know nothing about this, the correspondents have not the faintest clue about British systems on which we are based. They say, yes, what’s wrong? These are legitimate civic organisations keeping the government on the path of democracy. Is it? The doctors, British Medical Council open up, we open back on non-medical issues. They will be demolished, isn’t it?For the English-educated, let me explain. We accept differences of views and opinions as part of a way of life. It’s natural in any society. It’s completely open to anybody to take a contrary view, but not to manipulate other organisations, or groups of persons. Take a position, but be prepared to have your position demolished or debunked, because that’s a part of democracy.If you tell me that my Newspaper and Printing Presses Act is undemocratic and so on, I’d say ‘Right, let’s argue this one out.’ I was prepared to go to Washington, as I did in April, and met 500 American editors. And I have yet to hear one of them, including the Asian Wall Street Journal man, who was the chairman of that conference, to point out where my position was false, illogical or undemocratic. They cannot fault me.This is my country, this is my society. You point out where you have the right to interfere in my domestic politics. You attack, I am prepared to defend. If I am wrong, I am demolished before the people.And remember, we give everybody full television time. The opposition, whether it’s Chiam See Tong, or Mr. Jeyaretnam, he had fuller television time. There was no censoring. There was no doctoring.We accept differences of views and opinions as part of a way of life. It’s natural in any society. It’s completely open to anybody to take a contrary view, but not to manipulate other organisations, or groups of persons. Take a position, but be prepared to have your position demolished or debunked, because that’s a part of democracy.This is my country, this is my society. You point out where you have the right to interfere in my domestic politics. You attack, I am prepared to defend. If I am wrong, I am demolished before the people.The Law Society attacked us, I brought them to meet me face to face, full television coverage. If Francis Seow can get the better of me, let him. More encounters over more issues, so be it. Successively, people must know, isn’t it? Who was right, who was wrong?Some young professionals reported to the MPs who reported to me. They said, ‘We lost.’ I don’t think so. Or I lost. I lost because he was bold enough under questioning to reply brazenly. One, that he was not under a cloud when he resigned from the Legal Service. And two, yes, that I had offered him a judgeship. Am I out of my mind? I mean it sounds, it’s good television, mind you. But anybody who knows me will know that that’s the last thing I would do, isn’t it? And I say this without the privilege of Parliament that I must have been out of my mind if I did that. And I never did it.So in other words, dishonesty, boldness, brazenness on television is good watching. Alright for once, for the first occasion. The second, the third, the fourth, the fifth.After a while, Mr. Jeyaretnam was sounding very thin, wasn’t it? Judicial interference, executive interference with the judiciary. So he pressed on, but that is democracy.If it was true, I am demolished. The government is destroyed. Its creditability is standing.We gave everybody a chance to have a go. Anybody can set up his party newspaper, publish it, hold public rallies, distribute pamphlets, go round the markets, shake hands, give pamphlets out, sell their newspapers, hold press conferences. Perfectly open. But it’s not caught fire, isn’t it?That’s the way the PAP did it. The press was against us when we were formed in ’54. We put out pamphlets, we sold them. The task ahead in 1959 is now a set of historic documents because we have fulfilled most of what we promised in education, labour, women’s rights.So my invitation to those who feel that all this is stifling—look, stand up and be counted. I have no sympathy for people who say, ‘Look, oh, then they will poke fun at me.’ Are you so fragile that you can’t stand a little criticism?In order that we have the right to say what was going to happen to Singapore, my colleagues and I—Goh Keng Swee, Rajaratnam, Toh Chin Chye, Ong Pang Boon—we put our lives at stake. Our lives and liberty were at stake. So I have no sympathy for people who say ‘Look, I am embarrassed.’So my invitation to those who feel that all this is stifling—look, stand up and be counted. I have no sympathy for people who say, ‘Look, oh, then they will poke fun at me.’ Are you so fragile that you can’t stand a little criticism?You write to a newspaper and dare not sign your name, but that’s Singapore, that’s part of Asian culture. So we are somewhere caught in between. If you say you are a westerner, stand up. They stand up in Hyde Park, they stand up everywhere. And if you have been to a public school, you can tell them straightaway because he’ll stand up, and with the utmost of aplomb, state the most ridiculous of propositions. That’s public school training.But the Singaporean feels, ‘No, no. If I do that, the prime minister will make fun of me and it’s no good for me.’ But if you make fun of the prime minister’s colleagues and their policy, that’s democracy without them replying?Let me add this backdrop. We are not in the Caribbean. We are not in the Mediterranean. We are in Southeast Asia, and subversion is endemic. Yes, the communist ideology is debunked. It was debunked the day the Chinese daily, Remin Ri Bao (People’s Daily), started using Singapore as a model for tourism, for public housing, for greening a city.I thought to myself, what a strange world. All those disciples, the little ‘Maos’ who made our lives a misery, and made my life a misery, and they were deported in the 1950s and ’60s, were now writing me Christmas cards and New Year cards prais- ing Singapore, when they were denouncing me as a lackey of the British imperialist. Why? Because they read it in Remin Ri Bao. Since Remin Ri Bao said so, it must be so. Of course, they also hope that, you know, perhaps, their re-application for permanent residence may be considered.As an ideology, that is gone. Yes. But the people who have survived that revolution, who have developed the techniques of subversion, there are two parts of communism. One is the ideas that capture people in equal world—how to make it better, how the capitalist system is wrong in logic, in reason, in the economics of it. The other is the method of organising cells and getting power, which Lenin worked out successfully. They have worked it out to a fine art. They’re not going to give up. Chia Thye Poh is not going to give up. Because if he gives up, his life’s investment is written off. They are still plucking away.There are a few thousands of them in Malaysia and in Singapore. But more in Malaysia where the chances of revival, they believe, are greater because of ethnic, religious and economic differences.So, remember this. If it ever restarts in Malaysia, and it’s got an offshoot line, it’s got a branch line in Singapore, then we are involved a second time. I don’t know whether it’s going to restart in Malaysia or not. But I know that for every FUEMSSO returnee in Singapore, there are three or four in Malaysia, like William Yap and Kenneth Tsang. More went back there. Some have been picked up, but many are still working just as scriptwriters, whatever. And there, the situation is different. You can get a United Front more easily revised. That’s their business.But if we have a branch of that United Front here, we are re-involved in another row, another messy business. And I see no reason why we should allow it. Keep it clean. If it happens there, well, it’s bad luck for us too because I don’t believe we can have trouble there without some deleterious effects on us.But if there is no branch of the CUF here, there will not be that same friction. And there was no clash with the Catholic Church because, otherwise, they would not have sent us the third party note in June.I have many other items I want to talk about, but I will reserve it for some other occasion.I just want to make brief comments on two items. One is the elected president, the other is town councils. The arguments I read in the newspapers, and watched on television, and heard in Parliament does not meet one simple point. The fact that we have not had profligate spending does not mean we will not have. Just put this out of harm’s way.When we came into office in 1959, there were just a few million dollars in the kitty. Whatever we wanted to do, we raised taxes for [it]. Now we have billions of dollars, let’s safely put it aside.In the argument, please do not assume that I will be the president. I have made no commitment to be the president. It is a possibility, which I will consider, when the time comes. But even if I do take it up, I will not last forever.So when you pass this, you are passing it for anybody to be president. And that is the basis on which the cabinet has considered this matter for five years. Six years really. Ong Pang Boon says five years. It’s actually really ’82. Six years.I commend it to you. I think you can sleep better with your money under lock with two keys. It has been suggested that this is the way I will have control. In other words, I will still control the prime minister. It’s two centres of power.You know the Constitution of the PAP and the way the Central Executive Committee is constituted, the mechanics of the system and the Constitution of Singapore. If you read that carefully, and Mr. Ong Pang Boon does know how the party was run because he was the organising secretary for many years. He will know both the mechanics, which are in the Constitution and the dynamics, which is in the interpersonal relations between the office holders.Given me and my links with so many people, all I’ve got to do is to stay secretary-general of the PAP. I don’t have to be president. I stay secretary-general of the PAP and I can decide, I will have a very strong last word on policy. I don’t have to be the president and I am not looking for a job. Please believe me.I commend this because it is good for Singapore. To those who, I think Rajaratnam has been egging me to say this. Actually, I didn’t think it was worth my saying it. But he said, ‘You’ve got to say so. You might as well disappoint them now.’ He says, ‘All this is really to get rid of me.’ Get me out of the way.You look at that picture in the newspapers—that old Tunku came down to the Johore Bahru by-election in a wheel chair. He is 86 years old. He came down in a wheelchair to register his strong, emotional, tearful support forthe independent candidate. He was the man who got independence for Malaysia. He feels passionately, strongly, totally for his country and his people.Let me add. I am not taking sides in this. I am not for the independent candidate, nor am I for anybody else. I am justpointing out how strong his feelings are. I belong to that exclusive club of founder members of new countries—first primeministers or presidents of a new independent country. And even from my sick bed, even if you are going to lower me into thegrave, and I feel that something is going wrong, I’ll get up. Those who believe that when I have left the government as prime minister, that I’ve gone into permanent retirement, really should have their heads examined.This business of key appointments, I have not included so many. My proposal to the cabinet was the key jobs—Public Service Commission, Armed Services Council, Monetary Authority of Singapore, Government of Singapore Investment Corporation and the ones with a lot of cash. They thought it over four years. They included a wider lot. It’s simple. You believe that there is such a wealth of talent in Singapore, you can just pick people and put them on to these boards.I have made awful bloomers. If only I had a president then who had business experience, who knew you need this kind of a man for this kind of a job, you would understood you need a man with that background. All our brainy students had done medicine. So I had to raid the medical profession and the dental profession and appoint them. But they were trained to treat individual patients. So when given an organisational problem they attack the individual, which caused a lot of mischief. Somebody should have told me that. But how was I to know? I had no experience. But if I had a president, age 55 and above who has run a corporation, he says, ‘No, no, that’s not possible’, a lot of unnecessary harm would not have happened.Now, town councils. It’s going to be a qualitative change in the nature of the candidates that you have to look for. It’s a two-edged sword, this, and my younger colleagues know this. They have thought it over for a long time. I suggested to them twinning to get our Malay candidates elected without too much of a problem.As the competition becomes fiercer and fiercer, they thought it over, tossed it around, they came up with Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs) in three, and they married it into their scheme of town councils. I commend them. But it is double-edged. You get a serious-minded, competent, able group, one election, they win just one GRC. They do well, the next election, they can have a clean sweep. That’s what the PAP did.In 1955, we fielded 4 out of 25 candidates. We won three. By our performance in four years, in the next election, we won 43 out of 51 because we also had the City Council. We could show what we could do. But that’s fair.If such a party gets in, performs well, wins the next time, Singapore is in no danger. But what worries me is one freak vote, and a motley crew gets in with a single member majority, and it’s all washed down the drain, in one term.I want to run briefly through the kind of problems, which town councils badly run can come into. I met the manager of the Estates Section. I said, ‘Tell me what can go wrong.’ He said, well, he typed it all out for me. I said, ‘Give me an example of each.’ Lift getting stuck, rubbish chute blocked, water pump not working. I said, ‘Give me the latest example.’He says, ‘Alright. Conservancy and cleaning, Yishun Neighbourhoods 1 and 7, and Sembawang Estate.’ In April last year, the contractor did not do his work, supervision was bad, his workers were not paid on time, workers did not clean up common corridors, rubbish not swept. In a few days, the rubbish chute had piled up to the second storey. Fifty-seven blocks, rubbish accumulated to the second storey. It was beginning to smell, maggots were beginning to form. So he got in an emergency team from elsewhere and cleaned up. Four days to clean up what was not done properly for just two days, because every day, they’ve got to pour new ones in. It gets complicated.He gave me a lift case. Block 10, Teck Whye Avenue, 20 September ’87, 10:40 pm. Nine youths returning from a party, rushed into a lift. Sudden weight, lift safety catch activated and clamped against the guide rail. The lifts have two guide rails, I suppose. I’m not sure two or four. But anyway, it clamped.So when the emergency team came, it could not move up or down. Call Fujitech. Fujitech mechanics came, also couldn’t get the mechanism unclamped. Open trap door, rescue one by one from the top. Have you seen the helicopter rescue on TV? It’s less dangerous, but it’s quite an experience.Then water supply. He gave an example of my own constituency. Tanjong Pagar, Outram Park, Block 19. Water cut off for two hours. Every block has got two pumps; one is standby. Unfortunately in this case, the standby pump had been sent off for repair. So, no standby. Repair team running around, got in touch with engineer, engineer came down. He said, ‘Right, go to next block, borrow the next block’s standby, transfer quickly.’So, this is relatively well run, of course, a big organisation. Not well run, life can be quite a misery. But well run, the competition is fierce.And I am happy to know that my young colleagues are prepared to face the competition. And my advice to all those who talk about alternatives, ‘Get a good team together, offer the people a real alternative.’ That’s democracy. But it starts off with people willing to come out, take their time, spend their energy doing things for others. Not just writing to the newspapers, or making fine speeches.My concluding note is a sober one. Yes, we have done well. Yes, there’s a team in place to provide continuity. But I want to add a caveat. I don’t want to be blamed if anything goes wrong. I have done my best and I think this is the best in the circumstances.In 1980, after the elections in December, I had a session with five of them— Ong Teng Cheong, Goh Chok Tong, Dhanabalan, Tony Tan, Lim Chee Onn. And I gave them my frank opinion of what I thought of them as leaders, watching the campaign, how they conducted themselves, how they operated. I rated them as follows: 1, Tony Tan; 2, Goh Chok Tong; 3, Ong Teng Cheong; 4, Lim Chee Onn. I didn’t list Dhanabalan because I do not think Singapore is ready for an Indian Prime Minister. And he is realistic enough to know that. No, no. But I wanted them to know my view so that they can decide on their views as they appraised one another. And I gave my reasons.I put Tony Tan Number One because, although Goh Chok Tong has got a faster mind—and he has, he has a fast, quick brain—there’s a decisive quality about him. He listens, takes all points of view and decides. After listening, you can’t keep on listening. After listening, you sit down and you listen to your conscience, your judgement and you say, ‘Right, we will do this. And if it’s wrong, I will take the responsibility.’I told Goh Chok Tong, ‘Look, you are trying to please too many people.’ Even the pressmen, they badger him. He keeps on obliging with answers. I said, ‘Just cut them off.’Ong Teng Cheong, I consider a first class chairman. He’s equable, he is patient, he listens to all sides, he is very fair, and he is decisive. But he is educated in Chinese; he is not as quick in English as would be convenient for a prime minister operating English in the working language.I am frank, I am candid. I tell them what I think.Lim Chee Onn, I rated as Number Four. I told him, ‘Look people in the eye. Why did you look down? There must be eye contact.’ Whether I like you or I don’t like you, I look you in the eye.They took it well, but I said, you decide. After the 1984 elections, or even before the 1984 elections, I could see that Tony Tan was opting out. He did not want this job.This is a remarkable team, you know, I tell you. They are not mad after power and glory. They want to do a good job and they do not want to take on a job, which they feel they can’t commit themselves to, heart and soul. And they are honourable man. So they decided amongst themselves, 1, Goh Chok Tong, 2, Ong Teng Cheong.Lim Chee Onn, meanwhile, had a bit of trouble in the NTUC. I think I want to clear this. He upset certain persons in the NTUC, his style of working created misunderstandings and, of course, they went to see Devan Nair who was then the president. And Devan investigated and got hold of me, and we went into it. And well, it was difficult, so let’s change.But he’s an able man, and a good man. So after this election he said, ‘Look, I am in Keppel.’ He wants to do a good job in Keppel, call it a day. I called him up twice. I said, ‘Look, think it over.’ How many people have got his ability and his experience? He’s been in the cabinet, he’s been secretary-general of the NTUC. You throw that away and just look after Keppel, I think that’s a crime. Keppel can find somebody else, but Singapore can’t find another MP like that, and you want people like that because in a crisis, such people matter.You know in 1962, ’61, we had quite a shock. Overnight from a majority of 43 to 8, we became a majority of 26 to 25. Quite a shock, people switched sides. Then Ahmad Ibrahim died. We became a minority government, 25 to 25. And every person counted and because they were stalwart people, we lasted the course and pulled it off. But it needed nerves, it needed fire in the belly.The British were advising us, have a coalition government with Lim Yew Hock. I said, ‘That’s the surest way to commit suicide. You go ahead. You ditch us, that’s okay. We will do it our way.’ What we’ve tried to do is to get as many good men as possible, inside and committed to Singapore, because it’s the only way it can survive.Other countries, there’s tradition. Such and such a group always have people in Parliament. The trade unions produce their quota. The Labour Party has got certain universities, certain clubs that produce their left-wing radicals. The landed gentry and the city will produce their quota of MPs. And they are there to defend the country and their part of the country.Singapore has no such tradition. We are ourselves. We never existed. We are not even a community. We are trying to make this a community. It’s an able, honour- able lot of people.If you are the US Marines, for every campaign that you fought in, you will have a streamer from one part of the flag at the flagpost. So you have some flags so full of streamers that you can’t see the flag. They have fought so many campaigns.This PAP new guard colour’s got only one streamer. It got Singapore out of a recession, which is something. It shows competence. But it was an economic solution based on the political foundations built by the old guards. The NTUC was there in place, the mechanism for getting things done in place. Slowly, gradually, they have to build on their own political foundations.Question is, on their own, a real political crisis, not an economic crisis. An economic crisis is not life and death. A political crisis can mean the end of everything. Have they got enough people with that fire in the belly and iron in the soul? Because when you’re under pressure, the world changes. You know, it’s like a TV screen, the picture, instead of being clear and crisp, becomes wavy. Under pressure, that’s what happens.My original team of nine under pressure, six stood up. I would rate them in this order. Goh Keng Swee, Rajaratnam, very close to each other. Ong Pang Boon, Toh Chin Chye, Ahmad Ibrahim, Yong Nyuk Lin. They did not rattle. Yes, they were nervous. Yes, they know that this is big trouble. But the faculties are working, there’s every determination to see the problem through, come what may. If we are skinned alive, so be it.A good team requires the leader and at least two others. Under heat, performance is high. You can see it in golfers too. When they are neck and neck, and somebody is catching up on you, then he is equal to you. And you are playing the last three holes, level strokes, watch them, whether under pressure, there’s a twitch. If there is, then you are finished.I have a lot of time for S. Rajaratnam. Because the more you pressure him, the more you put the heat under him, the more his faculties function. And he hammers away at his typewriter and fires back with gusto. And the communists can give you hell. And he gave them hell back. And, you know, it’s like the band when you are going into battle. Your band collapses, no tune, your soldiers get demoralised. So when your soldiers read a powerful riposte, their spirits soar and they go canvassing more, harder, make more speeches. We want morale as three-quarters the battle.I have not seen the team under crisis. I have seen them under normal conditions. Minor pressures, yes. There was some flak over this re-arrest. But the flak was more directed at me. So I was like a lightning rod for them. They took the decision with my concurrence, and I am happy to take the flak. That’s alright. It’s water off a duck’s back. What I have to do, I will do. That’s that. Full stop. Let history decide.But my worry is this—I can only see two, I am sure, who will not melt. And you need at least three. The prime minister and two others cannot melt under pressure. The prime minister alone is no good because the rest of him are wobbling.They go home, they have their cups of tea, they say, ‘No, I think he’s wrong. Don’t you? I think we ought to take the other course of action.’ Knees wobble, that’s the end of it.Whereas after our meeting, six chaps go out, and they buck everybody up, all the MPs are stiffened. MPs get wobbly under pressure. And you’ve got to say, ‘Look, that’s wrong. We will do this, we will survive. We will succeed. This is the right thing.’ That’s how you get out of a crisis.I take this as a metaphor, which you can find useful. Let’s say, you know, there are two kinds of kilns. One kiln, you go up to about 500 degree Celsius, you bake an earthenware jug or a bowl. The other, you bake stoneware or porcelain, 1,000 degrees Celsius. They have gone through 500 degrees Celsius. How many will survive 1,000 degrees Celsius?I just cannot know because you can’t simulate that. You’ve got to actually to go through it. All I can advise you is this is the best available and you play and work with them.Remember this. Good ministers are not just those who kiss babies and smile and have dialogue sessions. You can have endless dialogue sessions. Very good. You keep on listening and so on. It seems at the end, taking very tough, very unpleasant, very unpopular decisions and still smiling and still explaining.And finally, pointing out, see, we are turning the corner. The figures prove it. That’s what government is about.You must be prepared to have bones broken and blood spilt. There are some- times no way out. And you must never forget, you are not cheering a football team, you know. So if the team loses, you go home. You are cheering yourself. If your team loses, that’s kaput for you.If we had lost, you would not be here today. We sit down, we are ourselves. We’ve got reserves. We’ve got Hawkeye aircraft. We can fire fireworks, we can have a carnival. We’ve got jobs. We are moving from 3-room flats to 4-room flats. Expressways, tunnels underneath, underground.That is the sunshine after, but there were dark moments, very dark moments, when I could not be sure we would ever get out of that tunnel. One of those periods would be 1964, after the riots, till August 1965.There was no way in which anybody could tell us that we would get out of it. But we knew we had to do what was right, namely stand by what we have agreed in the Constitution, and we did, regardless of cost. And because the people supported us, therefore, we succeeded. It just wasn’t guts on our part. It was guts on the part of a total population, a total population refused to be cowed. We gave them the courage. We drummed up the music. But the people stiffened their backs. And that’s the way it has to be done.You want them to perform, please remember, it’s not smiling and kissing babies and patting people on the back all the time. There are times when a very good, firm karate chop is necessary. And deliver it cleanly. Don’t have two chops where one will do. That’s the reason why I have the minimum number of people suffering from karate chops.Thank you. Good night.