Ladies and gentlemen, usually I speak first in Malay and then in Mandarin and last in English. But I think because of the subjects that I want to cover tonight, it may be more convenient if I first start in English, then I have all the statistical tables dis- played. And when I come to those subjects or topics, which I know from my discus- sions with Malay MPs, are matters of considerable interest to the Malays, like the prospective immigration of some 25,000 Hong Kong workers, I shall then re-cover that subject in Malay, to deal with the problems, the worries, the concerns of our Malay community. Similarly, when I come to subjects that concern the Chinese or are special interest, I will re-cover the ground, explaining it especially for the Chinese- educated audience.But first, let me present the broad picture.In June this year, I was interviewed by the BBC. And at the end of the discussion, he asked me—the interviewer—what I thought of Singapore, how would it go. And on the spur of the moment, I had to conjure a figure of speech which could tell BBC viewers around the world the unique condition or situation of Singapore. So, I pictured a canoe going against the stream, upstream, against the current, but now after 24 years, no longer paddling furiously but with an outboard motor.I think I should first explain why I use that figure of speech, because some of the younger people have asked me why am I so pessimistic. It’s a generational difference in perception. They have grown up in the last 20, 30 years, knowing a Singapore that’s orderly, that gets better year by year—better incomes, better homes, better schools, better hospitals, better food, better hotels. And imperceptibly, the impression grows that this is the way life is.I did not grow up in those circumstances. I grew up in a Singapore as part of the British empire which was supposed to last a thousand years. And when war broke out, nobody was concerned. How could the Japanese possibly shake the British Empire? I saw that world crumbled, crushed, ruined in a matter of weeks. December 8, 1941, first bombs. February 15, 1942, Chinese New Year’s day, I met my first Japanese soldier. In three years and seven months of unbelievable, indescribable survival for God knows what kind of life to follow.Then after many tribulations, we joined Malaysia. We thought there was a secure raft, a reasonably medium-sized base to build a nation. Less than two years, we were adrift like a canoe against the stream.I put this to my younger colleagues. I think two of them are worth quoting. I quote first George Yeo. He’s got a completely different perspective. He’s about 32 years old, thereabouts, 32. He said: How would he look at Singapore? And he said,“We are like a country club with substantial assets and non-transferable membership. Terminate your membership and you will lose your present and future privileges.” That’s a different perspective altogether.This arose because you’ve got to find out, we have to find out what does our young view Singapore to be their future and why is it that last year, four thousand-plus decided to leave.Lee Yock Suan, you know he’s a very sober, very cautious man. You have seen him on television. He never makes a statement without having done his homework and his sums very carefully. Not because he’s slow-witted, but because he’s not a man to make extravagant statements. So I think it’s worth quoting him:“Singapore is not so small in terms of population or GNP as compared to say New Zealand or Switzerland.” I thought to myself, Switzerland is a bit ambitious, but never mind.And he goes on to say: “Our basic institutions are strong.” That’s why he feels confident. Basic institutions, structures of government, educational system, trade union system, the way management works with workers, with the government, the way the society is organised.I now take you through some tables which I thought were interesting. They come from a report by a group of European assessors grouped under IMEDE and the World Economic Forum based in Geneva. And they gave a competitive rating of ten developing countries. They did it also for 14 OECD countries, but let’s not concern ourselves with that. Just concentrate on the ten. And of the ten, I leave out four because we don’t want to fill up our tables with too many figures.I just take the four Newly Industrialising Economies (NIEs) plus the two who are almost NIEs, namely Malaysia and Thailand. They put us as Number 1 for competitiveness overall out of these ten. Number 2 was Hong Kong.Can I have Chart 1?Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, in that order. How competi- tive are you in the world economically?Now how do they decide this? Let’s have Chart 2. These are the factors. Dynamism of the economy, industrial efficiency, financial dynamism, human resources, outward orientation, social, economic stability. In these six categories, we rank as Number 1 against all the ten. But there are four other categories where we did not rank Number 1.Chart 3. This is a continuation of country profiles. Dynamics of the market, we’re Number 2. State interference, we’re Number 2. Hong Kong is Number 1.The state just doesn’t interfere, doesn’t touch anything. And it makes the society keener, sharper, more productive. Of course, it’s tougher for the individual.If you don’t win the race, there are no consolation prizes. In Singapore, even for all the losers, we give a potato or a cabbage.Innovative 4, orientation 2, but natural endowments, last—10. We are even behind Hong Kong in natural endowments.And they have calculated natural endowments very carefully, not just land area but what’s on the land, what does it contribute to your total economic performance.But for human resources factor, we are Number 1, beating Hong Kong. This is interesting. Now let’s go through the human resources factor.Chart 4. For natural endowments we are last. Right? Malaysia Number 1. Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore. Why is Malaysia Number 1?She beats Brazil. She beats Mexico. She beats Indonesia because per capita she’s got more resources—gas, oil, rubber, copra—sorry, rubber, palm oil, cocoa. You name it, she can grow it. Per capita, she beats the lot. You look at Singapore.Now Chart 5. We are 1, Taiwan’s 2. Taiwan beats Hong Kong. Hong Kong beats Korea, beats Malaysia, beats Thailand.There’s a lesson there. I was surprised that Taiwan could beat Hong Kong. But if you look at the reasons, which I’ll show in the following tables, you will understand why and what we must look out for, so that we don’t slip out of Number 1 position. Because this is the key. This is our outboard motor.First Chart 6—educational effort. See what we spend on education. We are Number 1. Hong Kong Number 2, Taiwan Number 3, Korea Number 5, Malaysia Number 4, Thailand’s 8.In secondary schooling, we are beaten by Korea, Taiwan and we are Number 3. In other words, they have more people of secondary school age in school than we have as a percentage of population. Ours may have left and are not schooling or working.Chart 7—quality of labour force. You see vocational training. We are Number 1. Number 2 is Taiwan. Number 3 is Korea, 4 is Hong Kong, 5 Malaysia, 6 Thailand.Quality of skilled labour, we are also Number 1. Hong Kong, Number 3. Why should we be afraid? Taiwan is Number 2. Malaysia 4.Chart 8—labour flexibility. Watch this. Worker motivation. Singapore Number 1. Thailand Number 2. I am surprised but they are Number 2, and these are very careful assessments made. Hong Kong Number 3. Taiwan 4, Korea 5, Malaysia 6.Labour flexibility, we are Number 2 against Hong Kong. We beat Taiwan and the rest. I don’t know why Korea is Number 8 out of 10. But that’s amazing to me. Maybe, what’s happening with the unions there in the last two years have had something to do with their labour flexibility.Now Chart 9. This is at executive level. Singapore Number 1 for education and training. Taiwan Number 2, Hong Kong Number 5.Managerial adaptability, Singapore Number 1, Hong Kong 2, Taiwan 3. Managerial talent, Hong Kong Number 1, Singapore 2, Taiwan 3.Now we come to the topic which I want to focus on tonight—brain drain.Chart 10, please. Now, 1 is Korea. In other words, she loses least. She is not suffering from brain drain. The one suffering from brain drain is Hong Kong, 10, at the bottom.We are Number 3. Number 4 is Thailand, Number 5 is Taiwan, Number 7 is Malaysia. That means Malaysia is losing more than Taiwan. Taiwan is losing more than Thailand. Thailand is losing more than Singapore. Singapore losing more than Korea.I want to take you through some sobering figures of what happened last year. We gave certificates of good conduct to Singapore citizens who have to produce it to governments of the countries they want to emigrate to that that they have a good record, not being convicted, not a person of moral liability.Let’s see where they went to. Chart 11. First look at the total figure—4,707, which means 4,700 multiply 2.5 because they were young, 20s and 30s most of them.Families not complete but a lifetime of work ahead. In other words, that’s the age group a country wants to get them at. They have been educated, that means all coughs, colds, measles, chicken-pox all over, properly trained. You know, you got somebody who can finish a race within, like you can do a marathon, and he will fin- ish within three hours.Australia, 51%, Canada 30%, USA 7%, New Zealand 5%, others 7%. It’s been rising rapidly in the last few years. Before that in 1960s, negligible. In the 1970s, it began to rise to about 1,000. 1980—it was about just nearly 2,000. Then it has been rapidly rising. Last year, it was 3,000. Year before, it was 3,500. Last year, it was 4,700.Now, what does this mean?I think, first let’s get a global perspective. This is the jet age, a pattern of migration of educated and talented people. If you are not educated and talented, then you’ve got to get on through false passports. You know, you’re a Sri Lankan, you try and smuggle yourself to Kuala Lumpur. Then you go to Berlin. From Berlin, you smuggle yourself to London. And then you pretend that you are a refugee, that if you are sent back, you will be killed. But if you are trained with talent, national boundaries can be crossed.It started in 1965 when the United States changed their anti-Asian immigration laws. You remember ’65 was the year the Americans landed their Marines at Da Nang and South Vietnam. They were out to stop the North Vietnamese and partly to establish their credentials that they were not colonialists. They decided to reverse laws which they passed to keep out Asians when they found after the gold rush in San Francisco and after building the Western Pacific Railroad that they would face a lot of problems with their Chinese workers, and that’s enough. So they decided to rescind it. No more discrimination against Asians. They were fighting in Vietnam for a cause.The Canadians followed suit in 1966. The Australians amended theirs, ’66, ’67 but not vis-à-vis Asia. But in 1973 with the Whitlam government, he decided to go Afro-Asian, solidarity with Asia and so on and Africa, he changed the immigration laws.Plus cheap air travel, on-the-spot assessment and ease of communications, a new pattern of human migration has emerged. What does it mean for us?First, we used to be the beneficiary. We’ve got talent from Malaysia, from Thailand, from Indonesia. We were the education centre of Southeast Asia for generations. Many stayed.Once these doors were open and they could leave for big open spaces, they felt if they got to leave the area, cut your roots or cut yourself from your roots, then go far away. So you leave all the troubles behind. Not too far away, like Canada, in case you have to visit your relatives. So Australia may be not bad—five hours to Perth, nine hours to Sydney. So that means a changed pattern.I give an illustration, one out of thousands that I could give. We have nine judges. Seven of our judges have come from Malaysia. Only two are Singaporeans. The Chief Justice, A. P. Rajah, Lai Kew Chai, L. P. Thean, Punch Coomaraswamy, S. K. Chan, P. H. Yong—all Malaysians. Two Singaporeans—F. A. Chua and Sinnathuray.But you look down the road, what could we find for our judicial commissioners? Chao Hick Tin, Joseph Grimberg, Tan Teow Yeow—Singaporeans.See? The choice has narrowed because they have leapfrogged. When they did not leapfrog, seven out of nine. And when the choice was made, where they came from was totally irrelevant. Who is the best man for the job? Seven out of nine.Same thing with my first cabinet. Goh Keng Swee, S. Rajaratnam, Toh Chin Chye, Ong Pang Boon. I can rattle you off the names. I can name you the states they come from. There was only K. M. Byrne and me out of the first cabinet of nine born in Singapore.Now, Singaporeans themselves are going to get creamed off, unless we face this problem in a rational, cool, intelligent way, make adjustments, educate our people so that they can weigh the pros and cons, and not go by rumour, by hearsay. Yes, the grass always looks greener in the other field. But is it?We are English-educated. Our professional qualifications are similar to those of Canada, America—not quite the same as America, but it can be converted. It’s more or less the same language, and almost identical with Australia and New Zealand. New Zealand doesn’t seem to be drawing so much because the economy is not doing well and it’s further away.Now, there is another deeper problem. That’s one aspect. I want to show you how much we are losing because we are not reproducing ourselves. So between these two, what we have produced and we lose, and what we have not produced, we are going to be like the last of the Mohicans.Chart 12.1 This chart shows from 1975 to 1988, if we had reproduced our- selves, in other words every married woman or every woman had reproduced 2.1 to replace themselves and their husbands, it would have been along zero. Now, we take each racial group because the pattern is not the same.For the Malays, there’s a total deficit of 2,400. Not reproducing themselves by 2,400. For the Indians, a smaller community, not reproducing themselves by 3,800. For the Chinese, we are short by 115,000 in 13 years. 115,000 plus another 6,000, that’s 121,000 short. They will be missing each year as this group from ’75 reaches 18, 20 and enters the labour market and helps to keep the economy going and look after the old folk, looking after you.What are the reasons? Well, you know the same old trouble. Graduate males marry downwards. So graduates marry non-graduates, A-Levels marry down. So the chap at the bottom got nobody to marry. He looks for his MP and wants the work- permit holder to be allowed to stay.I’ll have Chart 13.2 No, sorry, before we come to that, this is the projection of what we will lose if our birth-rates continue to improve like last year.Last year, it improved. It was a Dragon Year, right? We’ve made adjustments, and opt on the optimistic side. We won’t do as well as last year, but we won’t do as badly as the years previously. So let’s assume that the younger generation feels he’s got to respond and do something about their future.What will happen? The Malays will increase by 7,000 above replacement rate because they have the highest fertility rate. Although the Dragon Year has no special meaning for them, but it’s a happy year anyway. The Indians will be short by 700, the Chinese will be short by 70,000.Now the reason. Chart 14. I raised this problem in 1983. Only 37% of grad- uate males married graduate females. That has increased year by year. Now it’s 52.2%. But you see how slow and painful it is. And one year, it went backwards by 1.4%. This year it’s increased, the first half year, by 0.4%.In other words, assuming that the 50-50 are in university, boys and girls, 48% of the girls got to marry down, or stay unmarried, or marry foreigners. What happens?Chart 15. This is what happens for the group that’s now 35–39 years old. In other words, they were in university 15, 20 years ago. 22% stay unmarried. 22% just remain single.Chart 16. This is for A-Levels and poly. 21% stay unmarried. And the figure is going to rise because each year more and more went up to university and to poly and to A-levels.Chart 17. These are secondary O-Levels. 18% stay unmarried. Look at the numbers. Five thousand-plus.Chart 18 for primary school. 8%. But look again carefully. In 1970, only 3% remained unmarried. Now it’s more than doubled, nearly trebled to 8%.What does this mean? It means we have educated our women, they are able to get jobs. If they can’t get a man of their choice, these girls are hoping to marry at least secondary. They can’t get a secondary school husband, they stay unmarried.And it’s not just the Chinese and the Indians. I was quite astounded that this now goes for the Malays too. I had a chart prepared, but the Malay TV floor manager told me, no, it’s nothing new, he knew all about it. Nearly 13% of Malay women stay unmarried. They do not want to marry somebody who’s a widower or a divorcee. They don’t want step-children. You must be a bachelor, then your life and mine. Complete change.The unmarried rate for Chinese and Indians, 20%. Reason is obvious. The suitable males have married downwards and there are not enough suitable ones left for them. And they will not marry down. Or they find it difficult. And for those who do marry, they are marrying later. They are having fewer children. They want to travel and offer so many other reasons for having a small family.This will take years to put right but we have started on it, changed the format, incentives, disincentives have got to be altered. But remember, it is no use solving it just quantitatively at the bottom of the heap. That will just increase our problems. You’ve got to solve it across the pyramid, all layers. Just producing numbers who are going to fill up the factory floor as operatives will get us nowhere. We’ve got to have them at every layer, especially those who are going to make the managerial grades and who will do the R&D.Now every nation, every country in the world looks out for such people. And I want to give some examples, not that they are exhaustive, but again it shows you how once immigration rules are changed and the white countries no longer disdain to collect Asian talent, we are at risk. You know that computer systems analysts and informational technology specialists are in short supply because it’s a fast-growth industry.Our NCB, National Computer Board, and our information technology companies, nine of them, have lost in the last four years from ’86 to ’89, a total of 67 systems analysts and other people at the top end. It’s not all citizens. Some we had found and got them to settle as permanent residents. About half and half. We lost them.You know, also banks are expanding throughout not just the Asia Pacific region but elsewhere too, because financial services worldwide have undergone a transformation. From ’84 to ’88, five years we lost 26. Five may come back because they have not emigrated, they are just on assignment.But what is interesting is where they have a white source, a white country to top out from, like academics, there’s no demand. So National University of Singapore (NUS) and Nanyang Technological Institute (NTI) from ’86 to ’89 lost only six. Three went on overseas appointment and will come back.So what we must hope for, expect all these shortages in the rich countries get solved quickly and we are not raided. And it’s not just esoteric skills, simple skills like aircraft engineers.You know that there is a big worldwide boom in air travel. And we lost, SIA (Singapore Airlines), 12 months up to July this year, 52 aircraft engineers, technicians, flight engineers, cabin crew, general staff. And our MP for Sembawang, Charles Chong, told me that Qantas, Ansett from Australia and Air Canada make arrangements for their relocation. No, they come, talk terms. You can come and visit Sydney, or Vancouver or whatever and switch. Australia took nine, Canada took three, the United States took one. Thirteen aircraft engineers.So I asked Charles Chong, I said before they go away, talk to them. Why? They didn’t want to talk to Ministry for Community Development. If you’ve got researchers doing a job trying to fathom the reasons, they were shy, but they spoke to their union chief. Well, the answers are as follows:For the same type of job, Australia and Canada, their pay is higher than SIA. They can buy bigger landed property. They can buy bigger cars. In Singapore, there’s too much emphasis on work. The competition is too fierce. There’s little leisure with the family. There are too many restrictions and regulations. There’s not enough freedom of choice. But, of course, the wives say they will miss the maid.Then the second lot of reasons have to do with the children’s education. Because people emigrate always, or almost always, with the purpose of giving their children a better life. It’s a sublimation of what would otherwise be crass selfish reasons.It says: In Singapore, high levels of stress, competition too fierce. Parents get anxious and stressed when their children are unable to achieve above average results consistently, especially the second language and in ‘important’ subjects, like Mathematics and Science. And worse of all, if their children can’t make it to university, there’s no degree, poor future in Singapore. Whereas in Australia, it doesn’t matter. Whatever you are, you will be okay. It’s more laid-back but less risk.We’ve got to analyse, research, weigh the problem. We have to discuss this issue openly. Realities won’t go away and the grass is not greener in the other field because many have emigrated and have regretted it. We’ve got to gear our society to meet a different world set of conditions.My generation, we never contemplated or thought about emigrating because it just didn’t occur to us. First, very few could emigrate because the laws were against us. They would make exceptions for political leaders who are seeking refuge. If you want to be a political leader and you already start looking for a place of refuge, then cry it off. Just have a peaceful life. So my colleagues in the older generation just do not understand this problem.So I asked my younger colleagues, what would you tell them why you would not emigrate? Why do you stay in Singapore? They gave me their replies. I did a summary of their replies. Then I thought it over, I said, ‘No, this is wrong. This is not me, this is them, their thoughts.’ I decided you would understand it better and you can assess it, the worth of each reason if I gave you the person who said it, who believes this, weigh his judgement.I’ll start off again with Lee Yock Suan. He’s a cautious man. You have seen him on television.With prudent financial management, Singapore has strong financial reserves and negligible foreign debt. This is reflected in the strong Singapore dollar and low income tax rates. The average income tax, as distinct from the marginal rate, paid by a Singaporean on his total income is comparable to Hong Kong which has a flat rate. In comparison, many western countries, including the United States, are living on borrowed money. Their citizens are heavily taxed to finance their welfare systems. Future generations will inherit a heavy burden.Second reason: ‘Southeast Asia is a region of rapid growth with a young population. Several ASEAN countries can be expected to join the ranks of the NIEs in the near future. In contrast, the West are faced with an ageing population and a declining workforce.’He goes on to say why, that’s the reason why we should stay here. Now, why he would not go, his reasons. ‘All people hear is the good life overseas without the counter-balancing perspective on problems of emigration, such as racial discrimination, drugs, promiscuity and crime. Are the children of emigrants better off?’ He put a big question mark. ‘Some Singaporeans who have emigrated are disillusioned and may be prepared to return. We may be able to get them to relate their experience to Singaporeans.’ Well, we must try. ‘Apart from landed properties, cars and wide open spaces, the quality of life here is not inferior to Australia, Canada or the United States.’Now, I’ll give you the Minister for Finance, Richard Hu. Reasons for his staying in Singapore:An economy that is growing strongly must provide the best opportunities for everyone and Singapore has a proven track record. For the average person in Singapore, progress up the ladder and in all sectors, whether in business, government or the professions is only limited by individual capabilities. Whereas the emigrant is bound to face restrictions, including racial discrimination.Our system of CPF savings, public housing and health care, old age security is well catered for. Not so in the United States, Australia or New Zealand. The young emigrants may not feel it now. But as they age, they will face grim prospects of isolation and survival in a social environment in which their children will have left them, domestic help is not available and there is no large network of friends and relatives to fall back on.I give you now Yeo Ning Hong. He has done one PhD in England. He stayed there three years and he went on to Stanford and stayed there another two or three years. So he knows what he is talking about.Asians in western countries must swallow their pride from time to time, particularly in periods of economic slowdown or recession when racial discrimination becomes more blatant and racist abuse and attacks more prevalent. Whites experiencing higher unemployment in such times blame the Asians for taking away jobs. Some Asians complain that in many companies and organisations, there is an invisible ceiling for Asian employees.In other words, beyond a certain point you cannot be promoted.Yeo Cheow Tong wrote to me and gave a similar reason from his experience. He calls it a ‘glass ceiling’. So this is a subject of considerable refinement amongst emigrants. ‘They have developed a special vocabulary to describe their problems. However competent the Asians are, they seldom rise above a certain level. Furthermore, they tend to be shunted to technical and operational jobs rather than given key managerial appointments.’Next, a very careful, sober man, Tony Tan.Our domestic environment is safe, healthy and secure. Parents can be sure that their children will not be mugged in the streets or exposed to the vio- lence and immorality that is so prevalent in the big cities in the United States, Canada, Australia to which more Singapore immigrants congre- gate. This makes it easier for parents in Singapore to inculcate the right moral values in children.Since 1980, we have taken many initiatives to improve our schools with single-session schools, more and better trained teachers, pastoral care and greater autonomy for schools to run their own operations. We can give pupils more individual attention.Singapore parents who emigrate for the sake of their children’s future may, in fact, find that they will be denying their children the educational opportunities, which we can now make available because of our strong financial position and investment in human and physical infrastructure.He was Minister for Finance. So he knows what he’s talking about when he talks about ‘our strong financial position’.I’ll quote now Goh Chok Tong. ‘Singapore is likely to enjoy faster economic growth than Australia, the United States and Canada in the next ten years. This means faster real income growth, higher standard of living, more travel overseas. Singaporeans who have emigrated will have fewer opportunities to travel as exten- sively as Singaporeans here.’ I think that’s a point. You can visit your friend but he will not be able to visit you. He hasn’t got the dough.‘We maximise Singaporeans’ potential. We will be moving into single-session secondary schools and upgrading primary schools. The average will not have the same opportunities. The average student in Singapore who emigrates will not have the same opportunities to advance himself as the average here. We emphasise human resource development.’ He goes on to add that ASEAN has proven successful in fostering regional stability.I give you Jayakumar. He has relatives who have emigrated to Australia. He meets them from time to time. So he knows what life is about when they emigrate.Marrying Asians becomes a problem because they are small pockets. You are Asians in a white community. Their children become so different and alienated. They have emigrated for their children’s sake, but they have grown up totally different, like the whites. But the crucial admission. You talk frankly to your brothers and your sisters. You do not and cannot feel really at home there. That’s the crux of the matter. I’m not saying they’re good, they’re bad. Human beings are like that. You tend to like your own kind. If you’re an Asian in a white society or even you’re an Asian in an African society. The Indians in Africa have a very tough time. And they get massacred from time to time.But you know, one problem I face is that I really don’t understand all this. I mean, I understand this as concepts, but emotionally I don’t follow this argument because my generation had a different outlook on life. I spent four years in England. I didn’t come back to Singapore at all because by then, or at that time, it was a vast sum of money to come back by air, which would have taken about seven, eight days’ hopping, or by sea, two-and–a-half weeks. So I stayed there for four years. I never belonged. I was interested, I was sometimes uncomfortable. Most times, fairly well- off because as a student, you are buffered from the frictions of day-to-day life.So to understand this younger generation, I tapped a little panel, a brains trust of my own, because these are ministers telling me. What does the average per- son who rubs shoulders with his friends, what do they say? I met three—two men, one woman. Young. The men were in their very early 30s. So they understand. This is the generation that’s being recruited.At the end of the discussion, I said, right. I showed them what the ministers’ views are. I tested them out. I said, ‘Give me a short note—what’s your assessment.’ I’ll read you an extract from one of them. But let me tell you that this kind of Singaporean is going to make Singapore succeed.First he said to me: ‘Please make sure that the government says it does care about keeping Singaporeans here. The recruitment of foreign talent is an on-going exercise to propel the country to greater heights. But it is not a solution to the problem of emigration.’—a different one altogether to him.‘Explain to Singaporeans that the newcomers are not getting a free ride on what Singapore citizens have built up all these years.’ That’s him. He served his national service; two-and-a-half years. Yes, he was a scholar abroad in Cambridge. But he points out: ‘Singapore is not a hotel where people come and go.’Then he says, ‘All reasons given by the ministers for staying are materialistic, rational calculations. That might be a realistic reflection of the situation. But speaking for myself, the single most important reason is that Singapore is my place. It is something I call mine, never mind the many constraints.’I never expected this quiet, very prosaic, scholarly type with glasses to have passion. But to build a country, you need passion. If you just do your sums— plus, minuses, credit, debit—you are a washout.When we fought in 1962, ’63 against the communists, when we went through hell from 1963 to ’65, many people thought we were crazy. We could lead peaceful, quiet lives. Why were we doing this? It was an act of conviction. This is my country. This is my life. This is my people. You will trample over us, over our dead bodies. We dug our toes in. We built a nation. Not quite. One third of the way. How long will it last? Will it travel the whole way—another 30, 40, 50 years? My generation won’t see it through.So again, I quote a younger generation. And I quote George Yeo. He’s a thinker. Not given to flights of fancy.He said,Competition amongst nations shifting from the military to the economic. Naked military aggression to gain territory is no longer acceptable, whether it is USSR in Afghanistan, Vietnam in Cambodia, South Africa in Namibia, or Israel in the West Bank. In parallel, national economies are increasingly independent which makes international cooperation more important. This means that being small may not be so crippling a disadvantage after all.That’s his perception. He does not think we are crippled by our size given the new international environment in the next century.The action in the next century will be in East Asia. China has suffered a setback but over the next 10, 20 years, East Asia will be the growth centre of the world. ASEAN has done well. After a long time, Asians are again proud to be Asians. And this is a sure indication of the way the world is moving.Well, we have to make the future from what we have. And it is in this context that I want you to see why we are trying and what we should do to secure a future for those already here and those who will be born.Now, we made this offer for 25,000 Hong Kong workers—blue collar, white collar. But remember first, the offer is for those who have got 5 O Levels, or poly, or NTC-3, or a secondary school education plus $1,500 salary. In other words, the cut- off point is not a work-permit holder but an employment pass holder.We have over 100,000 work-permit holders. We have only some fifteen or sixteen thousand employment pass holders. That’s the quality we are looking for. That’s the kind of person that will make Singapore a better place. Of course, it’s a gesture to people in distress but let’s not make too much of it. It is in our economic and social and political interest or we would not have done so. This is in Singapore’s interest.We’ve had the first two thousand-plus applicants analysed. We took 200 and did a sample analysis. Their family size is small—2.8. Ours who emigrated—2.5. Theirs contemplating coming here sometime 2.8—hardworking, resourceful, competitive. But are they superior? I don’t think so.I think it is the system that made them superior workers. There is no subsidy in the government system where there is health, education or housing. It’s every- one self-reliant. There’s also no need for national solidarity because the British never attempted to create a community or a nation. They can’t. There’ll be trouble with China. There’s no defence, no foreign affairs, never any collecting of votes. So it’s a unique society. Of course, it’s got its political disadvantages.I mean, economically, it is an immense advantage to be like that because you are adaptable, you are flexible, you can do things quickly, adjust to any condition in the world. The human being, the worker has to respond to the market.When they face a political problem in 1997, they did not have that political cohesion and leadership to take their future into their own hands and begin to talk with leaders in China. They were just individuals. Who sets the pace of the discussion? A whole host of foreigners—British MPs, British correspondents, American correspondents based in Hong Kong. Everybody theorises. It’s their future. But there isn’t that common cohesion to see whether they can get a better future if they can deal direct. Not possible. Too late in the day to start building this net within the community.There’s a difference with Singapore. Our policies are constrained, are conscribed because we have this larger whole. Whatever we want to do, first question is does this break national unity? Just like the 25,000. If it’s going to break national unity, it’s not worth it. Careful consideration went into it, we are faced with a situation where if we don’t move, we are stupid, as one of my brains trust panel said. It’s like as if you are running a newspaper in Singapore and another newspaper is closing and you don’t pick up the staff. It’s just plain stupid. But we would not have done it if it is going to break up our solidarity.I don’t think it will. I don’t think it needs to. But there will be this initial unhappiness.Our stand is the present racial balance will be maintained. And it’s a crucial stand. We took straw polls, also feedback. It’s as expected. Chinese, clear majority in favour. Malays, clear majority unhappy. Indians, bigger majority against and unhappy. I can’t understand it but anyway, they feel even more strongly about this than the Malays although they haven’t said very much in the newspapers.Let’s approach this in a rational way. We can hide it as we would have had to in the old days and not discuss it. I think that’s a minus. We are growing up, let’s talk to each other as adults. Racial biases, racial preferences—they are not going to go away. Let’s not pretend. We are all prisoners of our own instincts. And the first instinct in man is to identify with somebody who looks like him.You have read this little kite-flying. What’s wrong with a shifting ratio? Why not 50-50? Mr. Chiam was, quoted, said in Parliament, ‘Why not one-third, one- third, one-third?’ Let me tell you what I would think if I were an Indian—why not 76% Indians, 15% Malays and 7% Chinese? That’s better still.But, you know, this is the real world. Let’s just maintain status quo. And we have to maintain it or there will be a shift in the economy, in both the economic performance and the political backdrop which makes that economic performance possible. You study the figures and you will know that there would be significant differences in the economy of Singapore if the ratio was transposed.You look at the educational levels of performance. It’s got to do with culture, nature and so many other factors. But year after year, this is the end result. Let’s leave this well alone. The formula has worked, keep it. And, of course, the founder members are all of us, whether we are Indians, Chinese or Malays.I give an assurance to everybody. They will be absorbed in a way which will make them Singaporeans in the end. Must be, because the numbers are small. 2.8 times 25,000. One Queenstown of the old days, but spread over 15 estates.There’s a committee, several ministries involved, including agencies like EDB, HDB, PIPS, SIMS. PIPS—the Professional Information and Placement Services. SIMS—Social Integration Management Services. These are groups that have been already at work absorbing the 100 that we recruit every year from abroad.Over this committee will preside a committee of ministers and MPs of all races. So everybody has an overview of the total picture. George Yeo is the chairman. I think Mah Bow Tan, one other. And they are co-opting at least one Malay MP and one Indian MP. So everybody can see the figures. There is nothing clandestine about this.What I’d like to say is all Singaporeans would gain or we would not have done this. Nobody will lose out in his efforts to climb up our social ladder. The integration of this input will be a boost to our economy. It will increase our national stake.And they’re coming in as Permanent Residents (PRs). They’re not coming in as citizens. In other words, no subsidies, housing or whatever, including Goh Chok Tong’s refurbishing of the HDB programme. That is meant for citizens. And many other things. But in fairness, those who acquire citizenship, intend to stay, then they join our ranks. That way we will progress.Friends, I have another topic that I want to touch on before I conclude tonight and this is the problem of the international situation, not the problem but the fact of a changing international situation.It’s changed for the better, undoubtedly. The backdrop of 40 years of Cold War—communism versus democracy. The Soviet Union on one side challenging America on the other side is like a frozen river with the ice breaking. What does it mean?Put simply, if you see what’s going on in Poland, what’s going on in the Soviet Union, in Hungary, in China, you know that after 44 years since the end of World War II, they have conceded that the communist system does not work. It cannot compete against the free market system and individual enterprise and the capitalist way of organising production. It’s an enormous admission.For the Soviet Union, after 70 years of propaganda and enormous sacrifice. Millions died. Gulags disposed off. They are farmers. Millions sent to Siberia. In the end, they are minus. Don’t have soap. No detergent, no soap, no food. Their houses were pre-war temporary houses built in the 1930s.So it’s like a tug-of-war, you know. Two teams. When I was a student in the 1940s, even up to the 1960s, I remember when we broke away, or when the communists broke away from us, several of their fellow travellers came to see me. TheEnglish-educated one says, ‘Are you sure you want to fight them? You are sure to lose. History is on their side.’ Well, it isn’t.After to-ing and fro-ing, one team has just given up the rope, just gets pulled to the other side. But is it over? Does this mean world peace forever?Mr. Chiam and his Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) say any US facility in Singapore will greatly increase the threat of war and will disrupt ZOPFAN—Zone Of Peace, Freedom And Neutrality. And he stressed in his statement that our traditional neutrality will be disrupted. When you are going to be eaten up, are you neutral? Two people going to fight, yes I can afford to be neutral, but I am about to be eaten up, I’m never neutral.But don’t forget, Mr. Chiam got 39.5%, 39.4% votes in 16 constituencies. So I have to reply to him because he thinks this is wrong. All is peaceful, why have American facilities?There were wars, conflict, feuds from the beginning of time, from the first tribes looking for new pastures, new fields, new hunting grounds. They are fighting for scarce resources. You must collide. The Arab-Israeli hatreds and bitterness have nothing to do with the Cold War. Each side exploited one side of the Cold War. It’s going to go on until somebody decides that or both sides decide they’ve had enough. When, I don’t know.You look at Lebanon. Arabs versus Arabs. Christians versus Muslims. Muslims versus Muslims—different kinds of Muslims, Jews, Shi’ites, Sunnis.Ask ourselves whether the future is possible without balance of forces, whether we can have peace without a balance of forces. Because non-alignment means detach- ing oneself from great power or superpower rivalries. That was the whole purpose of the Non-Aligned Movement. Don’t get involved in America versus the Soviet Union. So that led to the Non-Aligned Movement. In other words, ‘I am not on your side or the other side. Please leave me out.’Before Gorbachev, the biggest danger to smaller countries was superpower conflict, more than medium or big power conflict because the superpowers will fight worldwide. But with Gorbachev, it looks like superpower wars were unlikely. So in that situation, conflicts and wars between medium and big powers become a higher risk of damage to us.I give you an example. Take the Indian sub-continent. When the United States and the Soviets were fighting in Afghanistan, the danger faced by Pakistan and India was a danger from America and the Soviet Union colliding over Pakistan, even though its one side was only feeding arms to guerrillas. But there was a danger that it could escalate. First, by the Soviets punishing the Pakistanis for allowing the guerrillas to use them as bases. And then the Americans will have to come to the aid of the Pakistanis because the Americans send the arms through Pakistan and gave them enormous resources to make it possible for that to happen.Now, after Gorbachev, what is the risk to India and Pakistan? I think it’s India versus Pakistan. That’s the risk, isn’t it? You have removed the Americans and the Soviets. So two medium-sized powers face each other with grave suspicion. They have fought three wars. But along comes Mrs. Benazir Bhutto and Rajiv Gandhi, also of the same generation, and they talk in terms of peace. So tensions go down.Then what is the problem for the smaller countries in the region? Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka. The problem then is friction with the biggest power in the neighbourhood. So the Nepalese have trouble importing their petrol and other things because they’ve got to cross Indian territory. And the treaty has expired and India wants to talk about many things besides just allowing passage of goods. What does it mean?It means that with superpower presence, the regional power is kept relatively in position. You remove the superpower, regional power then becomes—you know, it’s like Division 2 becomes the top runner. You remove the regional power, then the neighbourhood power becomes the top runner. That’s the way human beings have been—in tribes, in smaller nations, and in modern big nations.I give you the second example, Sri Lanka. Do you know that in 1971, the Sri Lankans went to the United Nations and moved a resolution for IOZOP, which pre-dated ZOPFAN. IOZOP3 is Indian Ocean Zone Of Peace. Because they said too many dangerous navies are wandering around the Indian Ocean. So it was carried by a large majority because of so many Third World nations. How can you be against zones of peace? It’s so reasonable. And it called on all the great powers to dismantle military bases in the Indian Ocean and consult all the states around the Indian Ocean to implement it. Well, no great power consulted anybody. They just sailed through, either inside the water by submarine or on top of the water.Instead of having a zone of peace, you know what happened to Sri Lanka. Guerrilla warfare. Jaffna Tamils squeezed, produced the Tamil Tigers. Tamil Tigers based in Tamil Nadu, India, trained to fight in Sri Lanka. Then it looked as if Sri Lanka would break up because the Sri Lankan army couldn’t deal with the Tamil Tigers.Rajiv Gandhi came to an agreement with Jayawardene two years ago to stop it from breaking up. He undertook to send Indian troops to disarm the Tamil Tigers. Risked his life. You remember the picture of the sentry of the guard of honour with his rifle wanting to clobber the Prime Minister of India on the head? Missed him. But obviously, those sentiments have widespread stirrings in many Singhalese breasts.And now you’ve got the JVP. Every now and again, the government is calling a ceasefire. The other chap is not asking for a ceasefire. It’s the government that’s announcing the ceasefire. And each time, more murders. Hundreds of Indian troops have died. Thousands of casualties. The Tamil Tigers still not disarmed. That’s IOZOP. It ends up in tears. Real tears. Who will put the country together again?I give you the third example—the Maldives. One thousand two hundred islands south of Sri Lanka, southwest. Peaceful, quiet place. SIA flies there twice a week. Good holiday destination. The RAF had a staging post in one of the islands called Gan. I’ve flown over it. Beautiful, crystal clear blue lagoon.Instead of IOZOP, they had Tamil guerrillas from Sri Lanka arriving to capture them. Not even a uniform force. Just a mufti and a few guns. And the Indians had to send an airborne rescue force to save the president whom I met sometime later. And he described to me his good fortune in moving out from his palace quickly and being able to telephone all the Commonwealth leaders whom he knew.And incredibly, the guerrillas did not know that they ought to capture, one, the telecommunication centre to cut it off, and two, the airport to prevent rescue. So in the end, they were captured, put on trial. That’s IOZOP.Now, for ZOPFAN, ASEAN have asked . . . We are very careful because we know all these things do happen. So we (ASEAN) said it must be recognised, guaranteed by China, Soviet Union and the United States. None of the three has guaranteed any such thing. And I think that’s out-of-date. That’s the 1970s. Since then, I think we ought to get the Indians also to be a signatory.Because since the 1970s, the Indians have become a considerable, a significant military force, power. They make their own MiG-27s. They make their own T-72 main battle tank, frigates, missiles. Their military technology is advanced.And both India and China can project armed forces across thousands of miles by sea and by air. The Indians have two aircraft carriers, 29 destroyers and frigates. The Chinese have no aircraft carriers but they have 113 submarines to 14 by India and 53 destroyers and frigates.And if gas and oil is found in the Spratly Islands, there are several claimants to those sandbanks. And I do not think gas and oil is good for Zones Of Peace, Freedom And Neutrality. So until ZOPFAN is guaranteed, I think it’s wiser to make other arrangements.And I was impressed, ensured when I read Dr. Mahathir in the Washington Post. It was faxed. You know the fax machine has made this a different world. You don’t any longer get summaries. You just get the whole article faxed almost instantaneously. I read him. And he has a grasp of the realities. And he said it’s ‘premature for the United States to consider withdrawing from bases in the Philippines’, and that a reduction of US presence should come gradually and in response to specific Soviet steps.Now, that is a leader. He understands, one the ideal state—peace, freedom, neutrality. Why fight? Let’s all live, let’s compete, produce, sell to each other, comparative advantage, everybody does well. But the reality makes him say, ‘Stay’.But not everybody in Malaysia has got the courage of Dr. Mahathir. You know, maybe perhaps it’s not just courage, it’s also the sense of reality which he has shown. Hence, we have been having a barrage of advice on what we should do. I read them very carefully. Who says it, where is it said, how is it said—who, where, how? Read it. Then assess it. You learn something from it.But in issues such as this, we take note of everything that’s said publicly. But more important, we make sure that there is no misunderstanding between governments, anyway at top leaders, leadership level.We said in our statement that the offer was made to make it easier for the Philippines to continue to host American bases. I met Mrs. Aquino and discussed this matter in Tokyo in February this year at the funeral of Emperor Hirohito. I met her again in Brunei in August. And if this offer was unhelpful to the Philippines, it would never have been made. That’s point number one and a very simple one. We are friends, we want to help our friends and we want to help maintain a balance which is useful, indeed critical for the stability of this whole area.I also met President Suharto in Brunei. We know each other very well over many years. And I have always taken into consideration his difficulties through quiet discussions. And I think, vice-versa, he returns the compliment. So when we meet, we talk directly and simply. No, no beating about the bush. It’s a four-eye meeting— that’s the purpose of a four-eye meeting. And I listen carefully. And so, I think he returns the compliment too. And I make adjustments where necessary to take into account his difficulties and sensitivities. I have never gone back on any word I have given him because trust is an important anchor in the relationship. And I have never found him ambiguous and having made his position known, I’ve always been able to rely on it. And he expressed no concern.President Suharto is a most important factor in the stability and progress of this whole ASEAN region. One man sets the tone and the attitudes. His policies emphasise economic development. He promotes cooperative relationships. He made ASEAN possible and has generated confidence within the region and of investors and governments outside in the region.To make my point simply, you compare ASEAN solidarity with SAARC. You know SAARC—South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. That’s India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and the Maldives. There are always some problems intermittent. Ask yourself why the difference. Is it in style? Is it in the temperament of the members?I suggest the difference is we have in the President of Indonesia, a man who is interested in economic development and cooperative relationships to foster eco- nomic development. Put simply, if President Suharto’s successors are like him with the same basic principles and policies, then I think ASEAN will thrive and prosper in peace, and it’s better than ZOPFAN.And I know because we discuss these problems from time to time that he spends a lot of effort to institutionalise, as he explained it to me, these policies— Pancasila, MPRS, which is the National Assembly, ABRI, which is their armed forces.They are all imbued with these attitudes and these values in order that the principles and policies now in force will guide his successor. If the institutionalisation is secure before he leaves office, ASEAN will thrive and will prosper.In Brunei, I also met Dr. Mahathir. He is very different in style from President Suharto. He had earlier sent me a message to which I had responded. The message was: Is it true that we will have thousands of US servicemen in Singapore from 1 January 1990 and that we are having a defence pact? So I responded. And when I met him, I debunked that report, and he as an experienced, political campaigner understood easily that the PAP government would lose votes massively if there were thousands of US servicemen in Singapore causing friction with the local popula- tion. Singapore is a small island. And he nodded his head when I debunked it. It just cannot be. So the scale must be understood.We are not inexperienced politicians tinkering with wild ideas. We have many long years of experience dealing with British troops, Australians and New Zealanders and we know the Americans. They come here regularly for air force and navy exercises. There is a difference between the British, Australians and New Zealanders and them. There’s a cultural difference. There is also difference in the lifestyle and these things have to be handled sensitively.But at the end of all these difficulties that we asked ourselves before we made this offer, who can provide security in the Pacific? Nobody else. For ten years, no country or combination of countries can displace the United States. For 20 years, I’m not sure. Why? Because over the next 20 years, at the rate at which the economies are growing, there will be considerable shifts in the relative position of the powers, resources available to America as compared to western Europe, in particular Germany, and in the Pacific compared to Japan, to South Korea, to China and if Gorbachev’s perestroika works and restructuring, the Soviet Far East would be quite a presence in the equation.I am not saying that at the end of 20 years, the Americans will just go home like the British. That’s not the way modern technology or modern economies work. I mean, they will be a bigger, wealthier nation but they are growing at 1.5, 2.5, at the most 3.5%. Their best years.Other countries—the Japanese are growing at 6%, 7%, 8%. The Koreans 10%, 12%. The Chinese, China—10%, 12%. Because they are starting from a low base. Even India is picking up. Our trade with India has gone up. More than our trade with China since the Tiananmen Incident.These are going to see real shifts in power balance. But we know that they have helped Japan, the NIEs and ASEAN to prosper.As against that, I list you several examples of neutrality, which I think Mr. Chiam and his think tankers, who helped him draft that statement, should study.First is Cambodia. 1954 at the end of the first Vietnam War between the Vietnamese and the French at Dien Bien Phu. There was an eight-nation declaration in Geneva. The Vietnamese had defeated the French. There was ceasefire. And the permanent members of the UN Security Council, with the United States abstaining, three Indochinese states and the Viet Minh government, that means North and South Vietnam, two different entities—they guaranteed to refrain from interference in the affairs, internal affairs of Cambodia.1989, 35 years after that, the Vietnamese, the same North Vietnamese, now of course, the whole of Vietnam, they have not yet withdrawn from Cambodia. They never withdrew. They were there all the time, particularly on the Eastern border abut- ting South Vietnam. Now they promise to leave by September 27. That’s thirty-plus years ago.If you take the second example—Laos, 1962. Again, Geneva. This time, 11 signatories. All permanent, all five permanent members of the Security Council, plus Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, Democratic Republic of Vietnam, India and Poland. They agreed—five principles of peaceful co-existence, withdraw from Laos all foreign troops, guaranteed the neutrality and unity of Laos. Vietnamese never left Laos. Laos was neutral with the Vietnamese there.Right, we go to Europe. Take an example—Norway. In 1939, just before World War II, the Norwegians and the Swedes declared neutrality. So they said, leave us out. The Germans invaded Norway in 1940 because it was strategic, it had a coastline abutting the North Sea, and they could bypass Sweden. And Hitler did not invade Sweden because it was not necessary. So that’s neutrality in Europe.Of course, there is one example where it has worked, and that’s Switzerland. Their neutrality goes back to 1648 at the end of the 30-year war in Europe in the Treaty of Westphalia. And two world wars, they were left alone. But they leave nothing to chance. They have a mountain fastness. So passes through mountains to reach Switzerland are well mined and guarded and does not require a big force to block.And they have an army where even the senior officers are reservists. And they take their civil defence very seriously. Every family has an emergency food stock and road tunnels are kept as air raid shelters for their civilians. And every bridge, every key avenue bridge is what they call a pre-chamber. In other words, when they built the bridge, at strategic points to the bridge, there’s a place where they put where necessary a detonator and the bridge will collapse. Easy pre-destruction—prepared position to knock off the bridge if anybody tries to invade them.We have only the water. I suggest to you that Singapore’s safeguard should be taken seriously, and that is the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) plus civil defence. If people know that there is a price to be paid and it’s a cause to be won, that’s different. That’s better than declarations of peace, freedom and neutrality. Of course, if we can get declarations of peace, freedom and neutrality guaranteed, that’s best of all, plus the SAF and civil defence, plus friends and allies where necessary.In the long run, we must put our faith in the United Nations as a long-term vehicle for peace and stability because the world is getting too small for major conflicts not to affect larger areas. Even small conflicts become big ones.Next, we must place our faith in ASEAN. Not blind faith, but faith that we can build up an organisation with strength based on the realistic common interest of regional security and stability. There must be a common interest.And this institutionalised strength alone cannot guarantee stability without a balance of the super and the big powers overall. Because no region is isolated from the rest of the world.Let’s say 20 years from now, does it mean the Americans have become weak and they have no aircraft carriers? No. Their GNP will grow at between 1.5 to 3.5%. They will be richer, wealthier, stronger. More aircraft carriers, more up-to-date ones.But there will be very considerable forces in the western Pacific. North Korea, Soviet Union, Japan, China, maybe Vietnam in 20, 30 years. ASEAN itself, India. The problem is to project that force into the region. You’ve got to take into account the countervailing forces.So today, one aircraft carrier, one battle group can dominate the western Pacific. When the other side of the western Pacific has got seven, eight battle groups to project your force in, you will require something quite considerable. And that is the problem. Because as military technology allows even small countries to project their forces over enormous distances, it becomes a different strategic situation.The Israelis were able to project their forces across thousands of miles and land in Entebbe and rescue their hostage. The Israelis thought they were secure so long as they have a strong air force. Now Saudi Arabia has got CSS5 missiles that can fire into Israel from Saudi Arabia and it cannot be stopped. The Syrians are trying to get missiles. The Egyptians and the Argentinians are working to develop their own missiles. Israel cannot be invulnerable, however strong her air force.In other words, whilst you can peel off superpower and even big power dominants from a specific region, it does not mean that if they wish to intervene, they cannot concentrate their forces and come back. They can. As the British proved in the Falklands.It was defenceless. It was captured by the Argentinians. Argentinians were squatting in the Falklands. The British sent a task force, not an American-type carrier. These are just small little boats with Harrier Jump Jets but they were able to projectit 8,000 miles into the South Atlantic—I don’t know 6,000 or 5,000 miles—got their state out-of-range from land-based aircraft, recaptured the Falklands.So it is a totally different world. The one that we have to envisage and prepare for is not something we can extrapolate from the past.When the British forces left Singapore from 1968 to ’71, I was reading articles, British articles about comparing it to the Roman legions leaving Britain. I felt very sad when I read that. I thought, my God, lonely and desolate. I thought again, and said, ‘No, that’s not quite the position.’ It’s not true. It’s wrong. The Romans left Britain, they never went back. Which was the collapse of the Roman Empire, and you were using foot soldiers to march from Rome to Britain. But here, you can be back within 24 hours. If you can get SIA’s Boeing 747-400, if we can lend them our fleet, we can bring in one brigade within 13 hours.So, in other words, the equation has changed because of rapid communications and transportation. It makes it a more dangerous and not unpredictable, but a more difficult to calculate series of checks and balances because forces which never used to be in play have to be taken into consideration. But the other side of the balance also is true—what George Yeo said that wars are no longer profitable. People know that.The Vietnamese, when they went into Cambodia in 1978, they were triumphant. Less than two months, they were in total control. They thought the opposition against them in the United Nations would be over in a couple of years and their government would be recognised and all would be over. They are stuck. This is the 11th year this December. They are impoverished. They have regretted it.The Soviets in Afghanistan. Iran–Iraq 1980. How many years they went ding-donging at each other? One million casualties between the two of them. Neither side gained. And the Iranians are four times, four to five times in numbers and strength. But the big powers were determined that there should be a stalemate. And they ensured a stalemate. Who supplies you with the weapons? So it wasn’t worth it. So the Gulf with so much oil at stake in all these very thinly populated countries around the Gulf is held in balance.But never before has mankind so much knowledge and resources to make almost any country that wants to work and progress to succeed. They know we know how to do it. The World Bank and all the other governments in the world, all the UN agencies, all the knowledge of how to grow food, how to get industries going, can make this a world where you don’t have to go to war fighting for zero-sum gains. It can be an expanding pie all the time, an adequate life for all.But don’t misread me. There is no Utopia round the corner. It’s a very hard slog for very many countries. You just think of them.Sri Lanka, Lebanon—they’re so fractured, who’s going to put them together again? You can give them the technology, they can’t put it to use. Or you take the Soviet Union, or China, or Poland, or Hungary. They haven’t got their national unity broken up. But they have a wrong system where workers don’t work, no incentives. How do you get from that situation to one of high productivity without a revolution and chaos?But whatever the difficulties, there are many countries that can make it and will make it. The rest of ASEAN will make it. We have grown in the last twenty-plus years and there is no reason why we should not keep a balance that enables each one to try to prosper and give everyone an adequate life, one which is free from hunger, disease, privation, ignorance. For us in Singapore, it is in our interest to bring this about in ASEAN because prosperous, growing neighbours are peaceful neighbours and good tourists and customers.I do not pretend to be totally charitable and altruistic. But I want my neighbours to succeed and we want them all to succeed because that adds to our success. It took a long time for this to be understood. As long as we were quarrelling with each other, what investor would go to Johore? But the moment there was general recognition that we want to go there as tourists, stay the weekend, play golf, swim whatever it is, and invest and commute to look after the industries, then a new climate takes over. And it is this that we must encourage.So I hope those who have this tendency for free-flowing rhetoric advising Wong Kan Seng how he should go about his business, it is not in our interest to have quarrels. We do not want quarrels. It is in our interest to foster amity, cooperation. They will benefit, we will benefit. And, most important of all, at the people-to-people level, if we can get this message across, particularly every Singaporean who goes there, that we are good neighbours, provided we are treated as good neighbours, then all should be well.On that note, I wish you another happy and, I hope, prosperous year for 1989 to 1990.