Friends and Fellow Citizens:

Two great events in my lifetime have shaped the contours of the present world. One was the rise and fall of fascism; the other is the rise and fall of communism. It's been two great climacteric events of the century.

The fascists tried to shape a different world which believed in racial superiority. The Germans believed that—well, the Nazis, sorry, not the present West Germans—they believed they were superior because they got blue eyes, blonde hair, they are

Page 700  |  Top of Article
bigger than others and they are better than anybody else, so they ought to populate the whole of Europe and eventually the whole of the world. That's been laid to rest.

Japan, altogether a different way, was also that way. Or that also, I hope, has been laid to rest.

Since 1945 when fascism was scrubbed out, we have been preoccupied with the communist challenge. I did not believe that I would live to see it totally debunked and deflated. It's a failure, and admitted as such.

And if we can take one single event that signifies the end of it, it was the collapse, the fall of the Berlin Wall. They could not create their superior world. They could not keep their communist bloc. It was an inferior system that couldn't feed them, that couldn't give them the comfort of life, that was backward in every way. Backward industries polluting the whole country, backward consumer goods, inadequate food. Just good propaganda. They kept that up for a long time and captured and mesmerised a whole generation of young men and women in Singapore—the myth of a glorious China.

I lived through that. I had to put [up] with it. I had to fight them. Because I didn't believe it. But they believed it.

Now what next? Frankly nobody knows. They say, yes, we must keep NATO.

I asked an American whom I've known in Europe. I have known him for many years. He's very frank. Most Americans are very frank, outspoken people. I said what happens now. He says, in his very forthcoming American way, he says [he] really can't say. Everybody says we have to keep NATO. I say yes, but the Russian enemy, the Soviet enemy kept NATO together. Now you haven't got an enemy. What will keep it together? Old habits? For how long? Nobody knows.

In other words, a new global balance has to be found and will be established because it is in the nature of human beings to fill up a vacuum. Somebody has vacated the role of adversary. We can't always be friends. I mean, you need an opposition team to win a gold medal or a cup. And human beings like competitions.

Maybe they will learn how to compete in a peaceful way because there could be very different challenges and different problems. Meanwhile, all relationships, international relationships [which] we can look at refresh. Re-examine them to see whether the old is still relevant in these new circumstances.

For instance, this North-South divide. Yes, the South will always want more because they are deprived. They feel that the Europeans, and then the Americans, and then the Japanese as industrial powers, who make the leap into the new industrial high-tech society first, have short-changed them, made use of them, exploited their resources, their labour, their markets. But there's no more Soviet–American rivalry to exploit.

It's Saddam Hussein's first mistake. In the old Brezhnev, Brezhnev–Reagan, or better still Brezhnev–Nixon years, or Brezhnev–Ford years, there wouldn't have been a Security Council resolution. Automatically there would have been a veto. And even if they withdrew, because it might threaten a world war, it would be on terms and a lot of very difficult bargaining.

So in that case you withdraw from the West Bank. You know, I mean it's the kind of bargain which Saddam Hussein must have learnt from Khrushchev. He says, you want my missiles in Cuba to be removed, you take your missiles from Turkey out. The two are not related. One, the Turks are part of NATO. Brezhnev said never mind, one for one. Nearly led to a world confrontation.

I don't know how this is going to be resolved, but I do know the way it is resolved is going to decide the kind of world we live in. But to come back first and deal with our internal problems and then we see it against this new backdrop.

Internally, things couldn't be better. The communist party has signed an agreement to destroy their arms. Of course, our experts don't believe they destroyed every arm. They think there are hidden caches. Must be. It's common sense. But whether they can ever go back to them and raise another guerrilla army, that's very doubtful. Because the clarion call that stirred young men's blood [is] no longer credible.

They want to go back to Malaysia, many hundreds of them. A few, tens, claim they come from Singapore, they want to come back. Happy to have good, hard-working citizens. But let's have no more of this. Proper rehabilitation procedures must be observed.

We do not want any more. One try is enough. They fail, that's it. And they, of course, command my, or command when they were at the height of their capacity to attract recruits, they commanded my respect, even my awe.

It's not possible to tell another generation about what it was like then. But I'll give this anecdote and you will remember that it left a very strong imprint on my generation. And we do not want any form of communist revival at all, whether democratic or undemocratic. Let's have none of it.

In 1961, when we were still with pro-communists and some communists in the PAP and we were parting ways, I had a message from the leader of the communist party who was in charge of Singapore, whom I had met on four previous occasions before I took office. But 1961, I had already taken office and I was prime minister. Of course, I had an Internal Security Council sitting over me, with the British as chairman and the Malaysians also represented. So we could be outvoted.

I met him. He wanted to see me. I met him. I was taking my life into my own hands. Here I was, head of a government supposed to be cleaning up the communists, privately meeting in secret with the enemy. Could well have been arrested and detained. Would have been quite an unpleasant business.

He wanted us, or he wanted me to carry on. Don't break, don't quarrel. They will support us. We will ensure that we will abolish the Internal Security Act and the Internal Security Council. I thought to myself, now why does he think I'm prepared to put my head and neck into his jaws?

We had a marvellous arrangement. The Singapore Government is not going to arrest him, but the Internal Security Council will arrest him, and the Singapore Government is outvoted. Three British votes, one Malaysian vote, three Singapore votes.

So he said, abolish that. I laughed, I smiled, I said, well, the answer is no. Within a matter of days, signal went out, knock the PAP down, kick it out of office. Robust approach, also [a] ghastly mistake.

If they had won, we would be impoverished and destroyed. But they didn't and I see no reason why any communist should be given a second try whether by democratic, or by democratic plus undercover methods.

There are some ageing diehards [who] will not give up, just like Chia Thye Poh. I admire him, I respect him. He keeps on denying it because that's the way he's been conditioned to react. But if he's watching me tonight, since he has not much entertainment in Sentosa after dark, let me let out why we think he has not changed.

Because we have monitors on him. When every time there is bad news with the communists, he was very sick and unhappy for days, hours and days. So you see he hasn't changed.

I just cannot understand how an able, rational man…He was a physics graduate of Nantah University. He became an assistant lecturer after he graduated. So this is no mean intellect. This is not a feeble mind. But why he believes this, I will never understand. Why does he not come to the conclusion that all this was a ghastly mistake, cut losses, get back to life. You can't make up for 30 lost years. He started it when he was a student in Nanyang. Even in high school before Nanyang.

Because of that experience, I say better let the remnants age, let them fade away. Let's have no more multipliers, however diluted they may be. And I believe this problem is behind us.

Of course, there are other problems. We will always have racial extremists and something new, religious extremists or fundamentalists, or whatever you would like to call them. And they are not going to go away. But although they act in undercover and secretive ways, they lack that organisational capacity to build up a system underground that can demolish the machinery of state and take over. So they are not quite the same threat.

Therefore, I feel sanguine enough to say that [there is] never a better set of conditions for open democratic politics. Because there's no need for united front politics. There's no need for manipulation behind the scenes of committees of non-political organisations and getting them to go political, joining the fray. It's what they did.

They worked on Old Boys' association, chambers of commerce, musical association, and they get them to issue all kinds of innocent statements on the surface, but actually designed to foster a particular issue and to educate. So when an English-educated group tried the same technique and moved into Christian students union or Catholic students union and got them to go political, and moved into the Law Society and got the Law Society to take the government on, I think that was just stupidity.

It's exactly what the communists get. It's exactly what we are going to allow, and nobody is going to tell me that that's innocent democratic practices.

There is nothing to forbid anybody from nailing his colours to the mast. And indeed, it's the safest way to do it. Nail your colours to the mast, defend it and say, ‘This is my flag; this is what I believe in’.

I believe in open debate, arguments, persuasion. I hope to win by votes. But start manipulating innocent professional groups, cultural groups and make them support political causes. Whether it's freedom of the foreign press or whatever, then I say you are looking for very unpleasant linkages with what has happened in the past.

All that should be over and done with because the CPM has packed up its armed struggle and there is nothing to prevent anybody from forming any party to advocate any kind of ‘ism’. If they find it unprofitable to propagate communism, then they can, like the Eastern European communists, they now call themselves democratic socialists, well, do so. But do it openly.

And I am encouraged also because I see more and more people write letters to the press and sign their names. That's a good sign, a good tendency. To run a democratic system, you must have democratic impulses in the people. There must be the cultural basis for that system. It's not just having a constitution and say, ‘Well, there you are. The system is democratic’.

The British gave 40-plus constitutions around the world. I only know one that's worked without major alterations, and that's in Barbados. Small community, homogenous, self-governing assembly or legislature for over 100 years. Mainly blacks, a few mix, white-black, and some whites. Every other country has had major problems.

Sri Lanka was the ideal, the model of how democracy should work when I was a student in England in the 1940s. You have seen it come a cropper. It never goes back to what it was.

When Pakistan was going to hold elections after General Zia died in the air crash, I read an article by the professor of political science of London University, called (Eli Kardouri), and he wrote a half-page article in the Sunday Telegraph which I circulated to my cabinet colleagues, why democracy will not work in Pakistan. Sunday Telegraph is the only newspaper that published that. But this was an academic and he gave historical reasons that this is a deeply divided society.

There are several different groups in different provinces. The fact that they are all Muslims doesn't mean they are one nation. Furthermore, theirs is not a free, open society. It is very hierarchical, almost feudal in their relationships between landlord and farmers, or peasant farmers, or peasant workers. Less than two years, I am sorry to see it's come to grief.

But I think in Singapore we stand a chance of making the one-man-one-vote system work with amendments as we have done, you know, like GRCs, three in one constituency with one minority to be included. We need that to make it work.

And I believe with pragmatic adjustments, given these more favourable conditions, we can have more open debate.

But do not allow—and I have told this to my younger colleagues—never let any underground group ever take roots again. Utter stupidity because it's such a tremendous waste of resources in the Special Branch and then the ISD (Internal Security Department) to go in underground with them and to ferret them out.

Now, the nature of the problems we are going to meet, which is what Goh Chok Tong and his team will face, will be very different because the situation is changing very radically and we need fast responses, flexible responses. We must change policies to meet changing situations. But changing policies do not always mean we change direction or objectives. You may have to change the route, but if you want to get there, 1999, and reach that kind of state, when you change policy, don't change direction. And they have not done so. It's like graduate mothers, you see. So giving them preference for their children in school became very unpopular and very objectionable.

So do we change? All right, we concede. But the principle is to get more educated women to have more children. And that has not changed. And family allowances have been given, income tax reliefs, not family allowances, but income tax reliefs, which means it's all fair in accordance with what you pay the government. And if you don't pay, then obviously you can't afford to be given a relief.

So in that way, they have been able to get their objectives. That's intelligent changing of policy in order to get the same objective. And they have to do that in an ever-changing environment because technology is changing rapidly, which means new products, new services and new lifestyles.

And in a shrinking world, interdependency becomes more acute. Acute is, perhaps, the wrong adjective because if the world gets nasty and protectionist, then it's acute. But if it gets cooperative, then it becomes much more favourable for everybody. It's a plus for trade, for technology and capital and people to move freely across boundaries, which means better tourism.

But it also means global problems, more global problems. Like AIDS, you can't stop it at any border. This immune syndrome. Drugs. The greenhouse effect. These are all now global problems. We have to anticipate them, we have to adjust to them, we have to look at how we will fit into this new world.

And specifically, if we look at our region, the prospects are promising.

Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia—they are going to take off. If they have not already taken off, I think Thailand and Malaysia are already taking off. Indonesia will take off quite quickly. They have adapted their policies. Japanese investments are moving in force. Americans are also moving in. We got to persuade the Europeans to come in.

In another ten years we will not get workers from Malaysia or Thailand. In another 15 years, even 15, 20 years, no more from Indonesia. We may have to go to Burma, Sri Lanka because I don't think their problems are going to go away that easily and so it will be a very different Southeast Asia. Especially, if the Indo-Chinese countries also—Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos—join the growth group and with growth, mutual growth, there will be less frictions.

And we can help it by encouraging cross investments. You know taking stakes in each other's economy. You should think of ways and means so that when we grow, they gain.

It's like a linkage between SIA and Swiss Air and Delta Airlines. They took 5% stake in each other to show a commitment. You must make a profit. I'm sharing in the profit. I make a profit. Your assets and your dividends grow.

Some schemes can be devised to bring this about. The GIC for instance, Government Investment Corporation, already has plans. This is new but we are going to put our money where our mouth is. We believe these countries are going to grow and we are going to invest in their stock markets. Definitely Malaysia. Perhaps when the market goes down further, we'll buy more. Because we think it's going to go up eventually when the crisis in the Gulf is over. Thailand, Indonesia. Now with this climate of cooperation in ASEAN, especially between our two immediate neighbours, Malaysia and Indonesia, investor confidence will increase and the rate of investments into all three will also increase.

It's taken 25 years but we have the beginnings of a sound relationship, good relations with both Malaysia and Indonesia. It doesn't mean you are not going to have difficulties. It doesn't mean you are not going to read in the newspapers that somebody says that we are trying to fix their tourist trade. Why, I don't know. It doesn't mean that there will be no more amazing discoveries that SAF rations have been found in Gunung—what's it called? Gunung Ledang. 

Why the SAF would want to find out some secret machinery or telescope in Gunung Ledang, I would never know. I must ask them. Maybe there are some mysterious plants there. Why should we want to check that area?

But we must get used to it. Well, I've got used to it. And there will be more but, of course, each time such a thing happens, I think whilst we don't take it seriously, some people may take it seriously. So I think we should come out with a proper statement. We make the mistake of judging other people's reactions by our reactions, which is one of mirth and merriment.

Because to me, it's, what would SID, which is our external intelligence or the military intelligence, want to send trekkers up Gunung Ledang for? Do we want to put up a telescope there, a radar station? What is it about? What military value is it? But, of course, all this should be spelt out. Then temperature, I hope, will come down.

But all that said and done at the top and gradually I see Datuk (Ahmat) Rahmat saying there is understanding. Now, from him who has always had a somewhat critical approach to Singapore's activities, on attitudes and policies, I say that's real progress, and I welcome that statement.

But our good fortune has been that Datuk Mahathir, who is the prime minister and who decides policies, has the strength to over-ride the hang-ups of his politicians and officials that arose out of Separation. That made possible this cooperation. Now he gave me and he gave Singapore the permission, which no other prime minister agreed to, that we can deal directly with any state government.

That enabled us to establish lines direct to Johor, direct to Penang. Now Goh Chok Tong hopes direct to Kuantan and Pahang. Which is good. I tried direct to Kedah. Alor Star, I went there and I think that was a breakthrough decision that has made this cooperation possible.

It also means when he supports this growth triangle or at least he said, President Suharto supports and he does not object, that's an important decision. Which means he is prepared to see Johor forge ahead. Forge ahead of his own homestead in Kedah because once it is linked up with Singapore, it's going to go much faster.

Now I welcome that statement. I know he drives a hard bargain, I can tell you from experience, but I also know he keeps them. And fortunately, I've been able to get on with him. That doesn't mean we didn't have some terrible fights when we were in Malaysia and over Separation. But we have been able to put that behind us. And this recent statement of his about the growth triangle in the north—North Malaysia, North Sumatra, Acheh and Thailand—is another breakthrough in thinking.

If I could simply put it like this—when Goh Chok Tong proposed this growth triangle, I had my doubts whether it'll come off. Because each one—each one meaning both Indonesia and Malaysia—wanted their outer regions to be linked and developed by the centre, not plugged into Singapore.

You know, 20, 30 years ago, before Confrontation, 1963, the Singapore dollar was the currency in the Riau Islands. When you go there, you don't exchange, you just trade in Singapore dollars. And, of course, you know that in the old days, there was only one currency for Malaysia and Singapore. It's interchangeable.

There was reason of geography, of economics, of history in it because these territories were part of the Riau Empire, the sultanate. The sultan was in Riau. One of the capitals was called Lingga, Riau Lingga. And that sultan had a Temenggong in Johor. And, of course, they also owned Singapore. And Raffles, and Faquhuar who came here one month before Raffles in 1819 in January produced the Temenggong. And he signed over Singapore to Raffles.

So we are really going back into history where this was one unit, one economic unit. Because of geography and the economics of the region.

Similarly, too, when I was in Alor Star last year, I went to see some of the excavations. They found Indian artefacts from India, porcelain from China, and that was the centre of a great trading hub. It was the hub of a trading region that covered the whole of that part of the peninsula which must have included southern Thailand, and across the Straits to Acheh.

What happened was that once the Europeans came and divided the political frontiers, each wanted the economy of that outer region linked up to the centre. So Jakarta wants Riau linked up to Jakarta. Result—Riau's progress slowed. Similarly, southern Thailand linked up to Bangkok. Now, if they could cross over, ignore these boundaries, you re-establish the old patterns of trade. It's just like what's happening in Eastern Europe.

Eastern Europe used to be a great trading area for the Germans or with the Germans as the centre—Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Poland. Then Stalin drew the line and said, ‘Right, you will be all part of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (Comecon)’. So the wall came up and their links were cut. Result—they are terribly poor now, including the East Germans.

The wall has come down; the old patterns will be reformed. And given time, they will revive, and recover and prosper. Now, it requires either a dramatic political change like that, meaning Eastern Europe where artificial barriers were swept aside by the logic and force of economics and history.

Or as in the case of Johor, Singapore and Riau, by the political perceptions of the leaders that this is the more intelligent way to get the place going. Now, with that as a setting, all will grow.

Of course, we had the advantage, the old guards being of the same generation. You know, we shared one colonial history. So Dr. Mahathir came to medical college in Singapore. He graduated from the University of Malaya, which was then in Singapore. One colonial entity. Therefore, we have some common reference points.

And what the younger leaders do not have is this common experience. It's a plus and it's also a minus. Because the plus is that we understand each other very well. But, of course, understanding each other very well also means we quarrel with each other very well. Because we know exactly what it is we want and the other side will not concede.

Now Chok Tong's generation will be different. First, they have grown up in separate entities. And languages are different now. When I was a young man, when I was a young boy, Malay was the lingua franca of Singapore. It's bazaar Malay. It's what I relapse to when I'm tired, making a Malay speech, when I'm tired and I can't put the prefixes and the suffixes, I just go back to the root word.

But Goh Chok Tong's generation can't even speak the root word. Maybe that's an advantage. So they just speak English and there's no misunderstanding. But I think, I've told him, make use of the time that Dr. Mahathir will give Singapore to broaden and deepen these ties, build up a relationship which is naturally cooperative. Both sides gain from it. Just talking cooperation, without tangible benefits in dollars and cents, either in increasing tourism or increasing investments, increasing trade, does not help. Better still, give them investments in Singapore so that when Singapore develops, property prices go up, they gain. Find some such nexus and reach out to the next generation leaders.

I'm sanguine about Malaysia because they have had three leadership changes, from the Tungku to Razak, Tun Razak to Tun Hussein Onn to Dr. Mahathir. So the next one will be a fourth change. It's more or less within a certain framework.

But remember, in new countries, the character and personality of the leaders count for a great deal in deciding bilateral relations. I'm not saying that in old countries, established systems, the personality of the leaders don't count.

I mean for instance, you would have read that Mrs. Thatcher and President Reagan got on very well; they liked each other. And President Reagan respected Margaret Thatcher's robust attitudes on economics, world affairs and communism. And not so much rapport, or warmth, or sense of camaraderie with President Bush until they met in Aspen recently. If you read the newspapers, you will see President Bush gets on better with the chancellor, the Federal Republic of Germany, Helmut Kohl, although Helmut Kohl doesn't speak English.

But even when they don't like each other, like probably Mrs. Thatcher and President Mitterrand, I think, or even Mrs. Thatcher and Helmut Kohl, if one goes by the newspapers, the two foreign offices or the external affairs ministries, there is a history, there is an institutional memory that says, ‘Look, the last time we had that quarrel with them, we did this and that led to this and so on, so we better not do this. Just keep these options open’.

So it is kept within certain finite limits. It's not allowed to overplay its bounds. But in a new country, the leader, if he quarrels with another leader, that's very big trouble, because there are no institutions that can mitigate or mute the consequences. And even if there are the institutions, they don't have enough life and don't have a long enough history to have learnt and extracted lessons.

Therefore, it is our singular good fortune that President Suharto took over from President Sukarno. Would have been a totally different Southeast Asia had we had a second Sukarno. You just imagine the last 25 years. To the younger generation when you say Sukarno, they said, ‘Oh, so what?’ Well, I said, ‘A terrific orator’.

How do I know? Because once I drove up from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur and it took six hours and I had him on my radio, my car radio, and he spoke for six hours. Everyday he's got to think of something new to enthuse his population because he could not feed them. Agriculture was going down the drain, imports were getting short, no foreign exchange. But he had good speeches and had fired off tremendous enthusiasm.

As I listened to all these, I thought to myself, now, one civil servant, our civil servant summed it up accurately for me; when Sukarno started Konfrontasi. You see, he needed an issue to galvanise his people and, so that otherwise, they'll go for their own government because they haven't got enough food, no jobs, no houses, no road repairs and so on.

So he wanted to get Dutch New Guinea which is now called West Irian. It's part of one empire. Then after several years of agitation, he got it. You see, Americans weren't wise people. Their institutional memory is not so long. They thought, ‘There you are, we solve the problem’. But the problem was he needs the problem. So immediately he mounted Konfrontasi against Malaysia because otherwise, what will hold the country together. Right? But as a general, Suharto watched all this and decided it was wrong that Indonesia had all these resources that can be developed, and however rundown the infrastructure, it can be repaired and it can be got going. And he has concentrated on this, brought in experts, got his own educated Indonesians with good training abroad into very strong positions. Anyone of their top ministers, or anyone of their top four or five in any ministry are all men of very considerable learning and scholarship, and an understanding of the modern world.

But whether, of course, they can implement it and implement it as swiftly as they would like to, that's another matter because then they run into road blocks which they have not completely eliminated. But there is full comprehension of how the modern world economy works and how Indonesia can be brought into this modern economy. I think that changed the history of Southeast Asia. One man, his attitude, his approach, his philosophy of development. He wasn't interested in building an empire.

So I did not understand him at first. Because when we first met, he explained to me Pancasila. I thought, well, this is another one of this ‘ganifore’ you know, but it wasn't. He was serious that it has to do with belief in god, democracy, justice and amongst other things, development. That's what he wanted. And because of that ASEAN has prospered.

You look at the other Asian grouping, SAARC—South Asian Association of Regional Conference—India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, several others. I don't know, Bhutan. Maldives. Maldives, yes. This year, India and Pakistan very nearly went to war. It still may over Kashmir. Last year, trouble with Nepal. I mean, the Nepalese took action against, or did not give the Indians the kind of special treatment which they expected for allowing Nepalese goods to pass through Indian territory and suddenly no passage of goods through Indian territory. No petrol, no other essential goods. Few years before that, Sri Lanka was in trouble.

It could have been our fate. So it is a matter of supreme importance to us how the succession in Indonesia takes place. Because when President Suharto steps down, it will only (be) the second time that Indonesia has changed president. They have had only two presidents—Sukarno and Suharto. And the last time 25 years ago, again, a younger generation has no such memories, there was a bloody attempted coup in which six Indonesian generals were murdered or assassinated and there was a blood-bath in which many, many thousands died. And Indonesia was saved from going communist by the intervention of what they call Kostrad, a strategic brigade and the general in charge of Kostrad was one called General Suharto. So the next year, 1966, he became president when President Sukarno resigned.

Now, it is important after all these 25 years of building up the economy and building up the institutions in Indonesia—the institutions of state that the succession to the president in Indonesia is in accordance with the Constitution and it is a constitutional succession. Otherwise, a great advance he made in his 25 years may well be thrown away.

And it is one of the toughest jobs, one of the toughest leadership jobs in the world. They have 13,000 different islands, big islands. Communications, because they were islands, they had developed separately. And it is only now, after 1945 till now, just 45 years of Bahasa, that the younger generation can understand one language. And to achieve that the Javanese who have the most superior language gave up their own language and took up Bahasa as the national language.

Now, we must hope that President Suharto's successor will uphold Indonesia's well-established and institutionalised policies based on Pancasila, which is not a slogan as I have told you. I thought at first it was a slogan, I was wrong. And Pancasila, the attitude that go with it, has been good for cooperation in ASEAN.

I am encouraged because I see the younger generation leaders on both sides get on very well and there are not hang-ups over Confrontation. I think the ties will grow wider and stronger because there will be more investments, there will be more cooperation between our PSA and their many harbours.

They have come to us, [asking] PSA to give some technical help to get their harbours going, their ports. There are some 40 over ports and they want to upgrade them and they say quite frankly, ‘We want a link with PSA’. Because that way [will ensure] faster export for their products. Then there will be cooperation in gas, in water, and of course, increasing cooperation in defence—joint training exercises.

The strategy of the Goh Chok Tong team is to use the time that President Suharto gives them, one, to consolidate and deepen our ties and two, to strengthen and establish these common economic projects like the Singapore-Riau-Johor cooperation scheme. Because that means whoever succeeds President Suharto will be able to see the value of continuing the cooperative Indonesia–Singapore relationship.

Of course I don't want to belabour this point with Singaporeans, but please remember the first ten years is all favourable, pluses. But into the second ten years, Johor, and then the Riau group can catch up, their infrastructure will be in place, because they have used us, the time for catching up is reduced, and we have to increase our technical capacity.

In other words, stay competitive, which means more and better-trained technicians, more and better-trained engineers, better management, higher productivity. No other black box can produce first prizes for us. The first prize that we win, any first prize in any magazine, that ranking, that rating is the result of many years of hard work.

It also means anticipating changes. For instance, it is quite obvious now that [the] German economy is going to be the strongest in Europe. It's also going to be one of the technologically most advanced in the world, not just in Europe. Which means we take the learning of German seriously.

We have sent students there but you know, the Singapore students, he calculates, he says, ‘Well, I go there, I have to spend one and a half years, several months here’. Unless he has done it in school, he learns the basics of the language, then he goes there and he learns one year of language. Then he spends four, five, six years to get some doctorate or something like a PhD. And he comes back and the PSC (Public Service Commission) does not recognize all this, and says, ‘All right, you are a graduate, here you are, that's the starting point’. So, he's put it all these years. So he says, ‘Well, what's in it for me?’ So he tells his cousins and his younger brothers and next time, less qualified candidates apply for that scholarship. So, I think, we need to make adjustments. And I'm glad to say that the PSC has been quick off the mark and putting things right, not just for the future but also any injustices or oversights of the past.

It also means we send good students to Japan which fortunately we've been able to do. But then there were Chinese-educated students with command of the Chinese language. But now, we are all CL2 students. So again, the problem will mount. And we got to give due recognition to the years they spend there and the different system.

It also means that we continue to send good students to France because the French language will be the language of the majority of the countries in the EEC. It is the major language in the community. And although German may, after a while, become a dominant, I think there will be more French speakers in the community and the bureaucracy in Brussels handles French and then English. Which means, of course, adjustments have to be made in schools. We have to encourage them from Secondary 1 to take on a third language. And perhaps in Pre-U 1 and Pre-U 2, we have to allow them to do just one language, and get them to finish the CL by O-Levels. Otherwise they can't cope.

Now, the moment you start saying that the Chinese press comes out with a long editorial tomorrow, so there you are again. But these are problems that we have to solve. If we don't solve them, we are going to cripple ourselves.

Now, next obvious change is in the schools. We have had six secondary schools going independent. I think more will follow because people will see it's successful.

Next stage, primary schools. And it is in fact more important than secondary schools. But it's going to be more costly to have single-session schools for all primary schools student. You just think of the number of buildings you must put up. It will take a very long time. But we start off with a few pilot projects. The advantages are obvious.

Full day to meet the needs of parents, so they don't have to start so early. Just before parents go to work, they drop their children. The school may finish at three, half-past three. But if it is an independent school, principals can make arrangements. Teachers will be compensated, will stay on and have trainer help to look after the students, not to teach them, maybe some will get supplementary lessons or remedial classes, but maybe you just supervise their play until five o'clock, or half-past five, as the case may be. Which means you pay in accordance with the number of hours you want your children, your child to be looked after. That may be better than leaving them at home watching television and an unsupervised maid to impart culture or values.

I'm quite alarmed at it. Because when my grandchildren come and see me, they give me jingles. I don't know what these jingles are. So I asked the mother or the father. They say, ‘Oh, that's that particular advertisement. They are selling this’. Which means that he has been doing nothing but hearing that jingle over and over again because the maid wants time to attend to her problems and her work. So switch the television on and that's how the advertisers get the parents to buy what they have been advertising when the parents are at work.

It's particularly important because of the structure of our homes. The three-generation family now is the exception. There are no more grandparents. When I grew up in a big family home. There were grandparents, uncles, aunts, cousins in a big rambling house. And you impart values to each other, and the older generation imparts right and wrong by saying, don't do that, and either encouragement or punishment. But maids can't punish, and if they punish they may get the sack.

So I think a full-day primary school, independent, payment in accordance with the number of hours you want your child left in school is a pilot project we should embark on if we can find the principals with the enthusiasm and the resourcefulness. And I believe it will meet a real need. We may have to start off with a very few schools to make sure that all the difficulties are ironed out before we multiply them.

The other problem that we face is emigration. I raised it last year. So our population unit has been studying this problem and they've given me some four, five months ago their analysis of why the figure peaked to 4,000 plus. Our population trend, from 1986.

These are people who were given permanent residence, who are coming. These are those who are going out with good conduct certificates. We had a net loss of 70. 1987, we had a net loss of 2,500. 1988 was the biggest one, we had a net loss of 2,900. 11,700 left, which was about 4,000 families. 2.5 per family. Then in 1989, we had a net gain of 5,000 and for this year, just first six months, 11,000 came in, 2,800 went out. 2,800 is 1,100 times 2.5, and we have a net gain. So over that period, there was a net gain of 8,500.

Now that doesn't mean that you know it's all's well. But why did they leave in that large numbers in 1988? Because the economy went down, so they left. This is the population unit's explanation of why we have this rise and why you now have the fall.

Every year, they calculated lag, two-year lag per capita indigenous GNP. That means what we produce, our jobs exclude what the foreigner earns and the profits he takes away. In another word, multi-nationals, work permit holders, employment pass holders, exclude them. Just calculate the Singapore component and move it two years.

In another word, when we had the recession in '85, they started applying, and by the time they process their applications, it came to '87, '88, and '88, it was still in the '86 recession.

Now, that's a reassuring explanation, but at the same time, a worrying one. That means the moment we make slow growth, since I'm going to have slow growth in Singapore, I might as well have slow growth in Australia. I work less hard. I have a bigger house. I can sell a house. I've had this argument thrown at me time and time again and I have checked on it and they say, ‘Yes, it's true. You can sell your house in Singapore for a million and a half, one small little bungalow house. You can buy a house in Perth for 200 thousand Australian [dollars], which is about 300 thousand Singapore [dollars]. Very big house, lots of ground, fruit trees and so on’. Then they say you put the balance in the bank and they give you such high interest rates and if you ignored the inflation, you will be doing fine.

Well, I think we have to watch this. This is not good enough. Yes, it is reassuring but it's also very troubling. It seems a younger generation that wants things better every year or they are prepared to consider the alternatives.

Now what kind of people leave? Watch this. Primary or less, we had so many come in. 12,000. These are the work permit holders who trouble all our MPs. So the MPs say, ‘Get him in. Let them get married to our constituents’. Well, then you get 12,000 primary school and less. And you see only 900 leave. So we are now better off by 11,000 primary school. You see the exchange I mean.

Secondary school, we got a slightly better input than the output. We lost 3,400, we gain 3,900. Post-secondary we gain 1,900, we lost 1,200. Tertiary, which means polytechnic, university, we gain 97, we lost 26.

So, not too bad if we have less of this and more of this. So to the MPs I say, press your case for your constituents very hard. But please remember, do you want more one roomers as your voters the next time? If you don't, try and press for this group who will be in HUDC or private housing, or this group too, HUDC or executive.

So many leave, right? But you see, how many renounce? Very few renounce. They have been keeping Singapore citizenship. We have been granting new citizenships. Now, we know more than that has left but they have been keeping their Singapore passports. Well, that tells us something, you see. It's like the four women George Yeo met at Istanbul. Singaporeans married to foreigners. And they have decided whether or not their husband's country gives them a passport or no, they better hang on to the Singapore passport. What they want, of course, is a Singapore passport for their children too in case they are divorced, and then that's a big problem because the child will go on one passport and they will have another passport. Now that's more complicated.

We have to solve this. We can't leave it as things are because—I'll come to the figures later on—the number, our own graduates marrying graduates is stagnating. It was going up by 4% each year, now it's regressed this year. I think we got to deliver another shock. And I have figures which will shock them. But it will shock a lot of other people too.

Our graduate women are marrying mostly Caucasians or whites, highly qualified professionals whom they have met either here or abroad. Now this is a different kind of family. I think we should change the rules and George Yeo has been, I think Goh Chok Tong has asked George Yeo to chair a committee, see what changes are necessary. And I believe we cannot leave it as it is.

We are going to lose a trained woman graduate and we also lose the husband who's going to be a plus. And many of them would like to come and work here. So if they are highly-trained, I'd say, give them the PR. After two, three years, they can adjust, they want to take citizenship, let them. Then the children will become citizens. Then even if they are divorced, the wife can stay with their children in Singapore. Because the Singapore woman is not so stupid. She knows that white men marry you freely, they also divorce you freely. And I believe the children will also be a plus because they are going to be highly competent and well-trained persons.

Of course, you know there are innate prejudices. And I do not pretend that I don't share those prejudices. I do. I mean if one of my sons had come back and says, ‘I've got a young lady whom I've met in America’, and my first question is, ‘What colour is she?’ Must be! You know, the cruellest joke that was told of the Royal family, that the princess had gone to America and married an American black, and disaster. It's completely untrue, But even an American white was still considered a blow to the Royal family. Far better they had married within the tribe, so to speak.

Now this being so, one way to solve the problem for their children is to hyphenate the names. It's regularly done in many countries. You see the Smith-Jones or some such combination, you put a hyphen. So when you bring home your boyfriend and he doesn't quite look Chinese but he does look a little Chinese, and he has the name which is Smith but he's also got his Tan-Smith, so the resistance will be less. So in that way, we can meld into the next generation.

Now, these are extremely difficult problems. But we got to face up to the problem and not dodge it.

I read this young man today in the Sunday Times, about how his mother is a Dutch woman and his father was an Indian, and he doesn't care what people call him. I fully understand him, and I sympathise totally with his point of view. At the same time, I have to accept the world as it is. It is first how you perceive yourself. Next, how does the world, strangers, perceive you. And we have to keep these denominations because when you deal with them in block, in numbers, in the army or any other place, you got to know what food, what allocation and so on. It is necessary.

So whilst gradually we'll all become Chinese Singaporeans, with the emphasis on Singaporeans, I fully agree with the young man. I coined the word ‘Singaporean’ first. I used it from about the 1970s to establish the point that we can become one distinct identity. But we are not going to be a homogenised identity. There is no such thing as ‘I am just a Singaporean’. You are either a black American, or a white American, or a Hispanic American, or an Asian American. And if you do not accept that, then you are deceiving yourself and you are in for a lot of unpleasantness.

I used to phone up for accommodation when I was a student in England. You know my name is Lee, also spelt the English way, ‘L’ double ‘E’. And I used to, when I was in England, I spoke English like the English do. And the receptionist or the landlady can't tell the difference. So I made quite sure after my experience, ‘Look, I am Chinese, you know’. I gave a way to say, ‘I have no accommodation’ or ‘I'm sorry, we don't take Asians’. Saves a lot of trouble. That's just to live and lodge in her room. What more to marry my daughter. So you see, let's not deceive ourselves. I think these things are important and this is one way of solving it.

But as I told Chok Tong, ‘Look, this is your problem by the time these children grow up. I won't be here. But they will grow up, they will have children. If you let them in, there'll be large numbers of them’.

But of course, we are encouraged because you see the PAP has got several such families, ministers and non-ministers. Tay Eng Soon, Mah Bow Tan. Wan Soon Bee. Lim Chee Onn. And let me tell you that all their children are doing famously in school, as you have seen. I mean one won a President's Scholarship recently.

So, why do we want to turn these people away? Now, in their case, it's easy because she is something Tay, is it? Rosalind Tay. So there isn't the same, the resistance isn't so great, well, not too bad after all.

But I say this is amongst the things we have to do. We have to desensitise questions of race, questions of language, questions of culture, so that we can talk to each other in a calm, rational way. It's no use, it's futile kidding ourselves, deceiving ourselves. These are important things.

So when Rajaratnam says, ‘Malaysian Malaysia, therefore you must have a Singaporean Singapore’. I read him, I said, ‘Ah Raja is getting forgetful’.

When we said Malaysian Malaysia, if you tell the Malay that he will become a Malaysian, and he is no longer a Malay, he'll be very, very unhappy. He doesn't mind becoming a Malay Singaporean but he want to remain a Malay, and identifiable as a Malay. And there are many Chinese who will be very upset if they can't identify their children as Chinese.

It doesn't mean that they are going to be China Chinese, they are very different from us. Even Taiwanese Chinese. And indeed so many who have taken unkindly to our 25,000 Hongkongers. They have emphasised to me how different the Hongkongers are. Yes, up to a point. But in the next generation, they can become Chinese Singaporeans because there is that irreducible identity in the person. The ethnic and cultural whole that will not change. The values can change, the attitudes, the sense of identification, that will change. But not abiding beliefs and how you see yourself.

There are other items which should be desensitised or smoothed over, regulated, muted like religious differences and the way we start converting other people into our religion. I am glad that they have decided to go on with this Religious Harmony Bill. I tell you the difference between them and me, really. I mean, simple.

If I was in charge as I was in early '80s or '70s, I would not have had such a long debate—White Paper discussion groups, dialogues, and so on. The answer to me was quite obvious. This has got to stop or we are in trouble. A Bill would have been introduced, it goes to Select Committee, it's thoroughly discussed and debated, it's on. Passed. And it will work. That's how we got here.

But, all right, no harm, provided it's not going to lead to inter-religious conflict, let's take a few years. It doesn't matter. But at the end of the day, remember, if a thing is going to get better, if you leave it alone, then leave it. Maybe it'll get better. But if you know it is going to get worse, it's totally irresponsible to leave it.

And that's the reason why I brought out unmarried graduates in 1983. I'll give you the result of my bringing this out.

I brought it out in '83. At that time, only 37.6% male graduates married women graduates. By bringing it out, we increased 4% each year—41, 45, 49%, then we slipped one year, minus 1.4%. Then we went up by 3.6%. Then we stagnated last year. Now, this year we've gone back by 1.5%.

Now, I know this is going to be a long process. We have made progress, right? But that's a long way from solving the problem. What does that figure tell us? This comes from the Marriage Registry. So the figures are absolutely correct. Wife's education, a groom's education, bride's education. It means that 50% of graduate girls will either marry down, marry foreigners or stay unmarried. It's a very unhappy position for any country to be in. Were we right or wrong to bring it out? I have no regrets. It caused a little unhappiness; people laughed at the idea of SDU (Social Development Unit), but let me show you how we produced some results.

Now when we started in '85, 1,300 joined. They were 7% of total unmarried graduates. Now in '89, we have nearly 10,000 who are 34% of unmarried graduates. In other words, the unmarried graduates know that they have a problem. I'm not saying the problems are easy to solve, but the recognition that there is the problem is the beginning of a solution.

So you see '85, SDU members marrying themselves, each other. '91, 111, 200 and 239. Now this year it seems to have gone down a little. Half, first half year, well maybe 240. Same as last year. So some progress. I'm hoping that of course, as a spinoff, they've met others outside and so SDU can't claim credit. In fact, numbers have gone up.

Another issue which was also very sensitive—and I give credit to Goh Chok Tong for having the gumption to tackle it—that is to reverse our population policy. He did it. I did not. I said, ‘Look, this is your problem. It's going to take a long time to reverse. If you like, start now’. He did. He gave all those incentives—income tax rebates and so on.

Now, I'll show you the results. In the fertility rate. TFR means total fertility rate. Now you see, '85, births, '86 went down. '87, '88 went up. Of course, this was dragon year. 52 and total fertility rate went almost to 2. Right. From 1.4 in '86. Now our pessimist thought it will go down back to 1.4 but it stayed up at 1.8 and last year it was about 50,000 and this year first half, it's going to stay around 50,000.

Now, which means you take the flag. Yes, people grumble. Why are we changing policy? Because circumstances have changed and the continuation of the policy will be criminal neglect of knowing something has gone wrong. So they took measures and results are plus.

Which brings me to my next subject—the kind of government Singapore needs. Very few countries in the world will have a government willing to tackle this, you know. You just keep quiet about it and pretend, you know, pretend that it isn't a problem. These are private matters. Well. If people don't want to have children, we'll all die out in time, it doesn't matter.

We need a government which is both bold and prudent. It must be bold enough to tackle difficult, sensitive almost unsolvable ones. Very few governments have been able to turn around their population policy successfully.

You give baby incentives. No response. We have given. Not blanket incentives. Not maternity leave for the third child which will encourage all the people who can't afford the third child to have one. So we give it to those who can afford. How do you test their affordability? By the income tax they pay. If they can pay that income tax, they can afford it. Give it back to them.

It has produced results. That is the joy of working for Singapore. If it doesn't produce results, year after year you make speeches and you keep on pushing buttons, nothing happens, so I'm emigrating. And I am dead serious when I said on the eve of National Day to get our ablest and our best into politics. It doesn't happen in many countries.

You know in America, the ablest and the best become heads of corporations. Each one, a big empire. If you run General Motors or IBM, your turnover is about 50 times Singapore's GNP. And you can afford your private jet, homes and holidays everywhere. You have castles in Geneva and go to Florida in the winter, or Palms Springs in California.

The result is elected office is sought after mostly by those with some extraordinary egotistical urge. The ones who don't like kissing babies, pumping hands, running all around the place making endless speeches, just stay in corporate life and do well.

Of course, many of them are co-opted by a president to do appointed jobs, like secretaries for state, secretaries for defence. They are appointed, but not senators. They have to fight for their seats. And once in a while, you get an outstanding man, maybe 20%. The bulk of them are very active, very robust, very outward personalities. But you take away their aides and their speeches sound different.

See, you take a good man: Whether he has an aide or no aide, he sounds the same. When he has an aide, all it means is he need not dig up the figures. The aide has dug the figures up for them. That's the kind of person we need in Singapore. And I say avoid hypocrisy.

My press secretary told me—sent me a note—this is bad reaction in Singapore when I said pay the market rate or close to it. All the executives say ministers well paid. Let me tell these executives: Do you want to do the job? Can you do the job? I'll tell you from my attrition rate. This is after the last 12 years—systematic recruitment.

You asked Goh Chok Tong and his team. We have the list of all those who are potentially capable of making it. The top 3% of Singapore, right, successful either in business or in the professions, or in the civil service, or in the army. It's a small place, no more than a total of those within the ages of 30 and 45, at the most 800 people. We can put them all into one little laptop computer, all the basic data.

They meet them, they have tea, they discuss, they have drinks and they zero in. Out of those that go through the first committee, which Mr. Lim Kim San helps to sieve out. From them to the second committee, which I sit on. For every person that I see, my committee sees, there's already been five to seven seen by Lim Kim San. For every person Lim Kim San sees, Goh Chok Tong's team has seen another five to seven. In other words, something like 50. You see 50 and one reaches me. Out of four that reaches me, one is chosen.

And in spite of that, the attrition rate is almost 50% to make a minister. Because you are not only good as an executive, you must be able to interact and relate with people. You must carry your constituency. You must put up with your constituents, enjoy their grumbles, or pretend that you are not irritated. It's quite a job.

We have got the system going. It's not easy to have established it. One key requirement is let's avoid hypocrisy and let's do this thing honestly, approximate the market rate. Try and get the government on the cheap, you end up with a cheap government, and you'll be sorry for yourselves.

You cannot reproduce the 1959 generation. It's a different world. The '59 generation was the product of Japanese occupation. We were all young men—Dr. Goh Keng Swee, Toh Chin Chye, Ong Pang Boon, Rajaratnam—he was the oldest. He was in England as a student. We were stuck here with the Japanese, changed our lives and the way we look at life. We were determined to do something about it. We sought each other out to create revolution, to get the British out of the place. We were not looking for a career. We were out to topple the system.

In other words, many of us got weeded out. Those who went drinking bitters in English pubs and talked revolution, when they came back here and they got the social pressure, and they got no promotions and got squeezed, many opted out. So for every one of us that stayed the whole course, there was six or seven coughing beer and talking revolution as students.

If you create another Japanese occupation, another upheaval, then you might have another such a generation 10, 15 years later. But let's not do things the drastic way. It is now a steady state, let us look for steady state leaders, and carefully select them, get them in, test them out, and they stay in only after they have been tested. I'll tell you the advantages of doing it that way.

You look at other advanced developed countries. Every election they promised the voter everything that he would like—free health, unemployment benefits, pensions. Who pay? They never raise taxes. They say, ‘Oh, this amortises over so many years’. Which means some future government must raise that money. Right? Net result is you have mortgaged your future.

That was the problem with the US security benefits for pensions and all that went with it. And they had to have a bipartisan commission to try and put the thing right.

And in a one-man-one-vote situation, whatever you give away as a subsidy, free, you cannot take back. It's very difficult. If you don't believe me, you watch Mrs. Thatcher. She can't take it back. Yes, she is chopped down. You look at the National Health. It's growing bigger and bigger. You can't chop it down. There will be a revolt. So she's trying to start a second tier, private hospitals, and gradually get people to opt out. Tremendous row with the Opposition and from the public who believed that every medical treatment now is a sacred birth right.

So you have NHS, National Health Service in Britain, Medicaid for poor people and Medicare for aged people in the US, you have Medicare in Australia. And I know Australia very well because Malcolm Fraser, when he took over from Gough Whitlam, knew that this was going to lead to trouble. Gough Whitlam won in '72, and it's a fine Labour government after 13 or 14 years, no, longer than that. Nearly 20 years, Liberal government. They came in, they legislated. And it just blossomed for a big budget. Malcolm Fraser came in and tried to trim it, never succeeded.

Today, the Australian Government owes US$15, 11 billion in external debt. I read that they are smaller, the debt is as large as Brazil, and Brazil has 120 million people and Australia has 17 million people. But of course, they've got gold, rubies, uranium, coal, oil, gas, fortunately. But you need the Japanese to dig it out and pay for it.

Now, we have avoided this. Very simple. For pensions, we have CPF, it's yours, it's your account. Save. We pay for this generation, not the next generation. For health, we have Medisave. Some of my colleagues, old guards, objected to this. Dr. Toh never agreed with this. He said, ‘I went to China, and all free’. Well, I said, ‘Yes, and what kind of medical treatment?’ You mean Deng Xiaoping gets the same medical treatment as the worker in the factory or the regional secretary? Cannot be, isn't it? Because there are limited number of top surgeons and top physicians. Only 10 hours’ working day in the outside.

In other words, because we have bold but prudent government, we have not mortgaged our future, and every Singaporean is really an owner of assets, reserves. So George Yeo told me, ‘Look, we calculate and say, when you take up Australian citizenship, you immediately own so many thousand dollars, unpaid foreign debt. You become a Singapore citizen, you automatically have acquired so many dollars in assets. We hold assets’. So I said, ‘That's correct’. But at the same time, they say, ‘What's underneath, under the ground? Have we got gold, rubies, diamonds, opals?’ Well, there we lose, you see. But above ground, cashable assets, fundable assets, we have them.

Which brings me to my final point. Life is a marathon. It's a figure of speech which Mr. Konei Goshi, an old man who has now died, recently died, last year, I think. He was the chairman of the Japan Productivity Centre. And he explained to me productivity in very simple, graphic language. He says, ‘Life, productivity is like a marathon race. You reach and win that race, and then you start another one immediately. There's another race on because somebody else has started something new and you to chase him’.

I think that sums up Singapore's position. We got to keep a move on. Our finishing line, first finishing line, Goh Chok Tong and his team has put 1999. We want to reach the standards of Switzerland, not Switzerland in 1999 because we'll never be able to catch up but Switzerland in 1984. Please remember that. It's not easy. They took 300 years to get there. We are going to do this in 30 years.

Why do I say it's like a marathon? Because at the starting post, we are all there bunched up. Everybody thinks he can make the finishing line and get a prize. So when you fire or flag them off, you see the pictures at a marathon—huge bunches of people, everybody puffing away, robust, optimistic.

Take them back one hour, wait for one hour and half-way point, you follow, see what happens. 20, 30 in the lead. No puffing, just striding away, large group, few hundred metres, sometimes a few kilometres back. But at least they are going to finish the race, you know. The way back are those, from the way they are puffing, you know they won't finish the race.

Now '59 we started off all robust, all optimistic. Everybody thought, ‘I got a chance for the first prize’. So it creates a kind of euphoria. My son would be the marathon winner. We are now at about half-way point. They know. So when you start independent schools, they say what for, it's elitist. Because they feel that well, you tell them, ‘Look, if your son can get in, we'll pay for it’. ‘That's elitist’.

What's the real reason? I've been talking to my MPs. I said, ‘Have you put this argument up?’ ‘Yes, they know but they know that their sons won't get into that school. So what's the point of having a special school?’ So I said, ‘You put to them this further argument. From this special school, you will learn how to improve your school, Otherwise, we will never improve’. I said, ‘But that's too long. It takes too long. By that time, my son would have passed out’.

You see, the human being, he's only concerned with his immediate benefits. What does the government have to do to keep up the enthusiasm so that they will finish their race? That's the art of government.

First job of a government is to equalise opportunities, right? Not equalise results. You equalise results, you are done for. Everybody gets the same, then you end up with what Deng Xiaoping calls the iron rice bowl. Nobody works. Everybody does his minimum. Very little rice in the bowl. So what do we do?

I say the government can increase the consultation prices at the end. You finish that race, I give you a consolation prize. You can't win. You won't break a whole record, 2 hours and 30 minutes or whatever it is. Even if you take 5 hours, you finish that marathon, I give you a prize. But finish it. What is the prize? I increase your assets.

Goh Chok Tong has proposed HDB refurbishing. $15 billion. Just increase your assets. But they want more than a refurbished flat. They want a new one. Well, why not? We'll give you the choice. We'll give you a second new flat, heavily subsidised. You finish that race and I think we have the assets to pay for it. It can be done. It will take another 20 years. But it's a price worth working for.

Every Singaporean who owns a flat, can double his value in today's term, within the next 15 or 20 years, in today's dollars. I am not saying that inflated dollars in 20 years' time, but today's value, we already increased the value of your flat. It can be done. Dhanabalan is a very careful man; he's worked it out carefully. Whichever way you want—refurbish and you stay put or you sell, he will buy back at minimum price, market value or minimum. Demolish, rebuild. That can be done. Maybe it'll come up to $20, 30 billion.

There's another step we can also do. Increase the value of your CPF. How? We are going to privatise and issue shares for PUB, TAS [Telecommunication Authority of Singapore], MRT, some very lucrative companies. All CPF holders will get a discount for x thousand number of shares, as against the market price.

In other words, we are saying, ‘Look, I give you these assets. Then you can also buy with your CPF, at issued market price, more. But you can't immediately sell and take your profits because that will defeat the purpose’. Because we found out when we gave the SBS workers the shares, they immediately cash in 50 cents one share and they called it quits. Which was foolish because it's now gone up to $4, $5. So I think a time lag, but if you want to liquidate it and spend it, that's your prerogative, your privilege. In other words, in the next 20 years, we can make everybody worth twice as much at least.

All this presupposes better, better skills, nimble, able government, an ever-increasing productivity and the next finishing line of the marathon. Which brings me back again to the backdrop. At the moment it's very uncertain—Iraq, the Gulf oil.

As I went through these 25th anniversary celebrations, I had a sense of the unreal. You know, we are generating so much euphoria, optimism. Is it justified? Yes, we have done well, 25 years. Next 25 years can be a very different and a very unpleasant world.

Let's say the United States Government gets trapped by the hostages and can't move, it's paralysed. So it becomes a long, drawn out business. This [is] a very real possibility. You see American leaders like Henry Kissinger warning the government. You cannot be sure that the consensus and the support of the American public and the media will stay like this. And if you're going to wait for the embargo to cut down food and supplies of weapons and ammo, [it] may take many months, if not years.

Suppose they fail and they say, ‘Well, alright, we go home’, what kind of world will it be? It's horrendous to think of it.

We are on the brink really of what could be a great disaster, or a very painful, maybe a costly exercise in international enforcement of law and order. Because without law and order in the world, this small, inter-related, inter-dependent world cannot survive. The Scud missiles hit the oil fields at Dhahran. Richard Hu who knows about oil fields tells me that if the pumps are damaged, never mind the actual well, even if the pumps are damaged, [it] may take many months, if not years, to get them replaced. Meanwhile, no oil is pumped out. Imagine the panic buying. It's already $30 plus. Somebody now talks about $40.

You hit and knock out the Saudi oil fields and you take another 6 million barrels of oil a day out. That's going to be a severe shortage and a recession worldwide. And if the industrial countries go into recession, how do we survive?

I mean even the oil producers, all right, they get rich up to a point. But they are also trapped by the inflation and the recession of the industrial countries.

So as I participated in these celebrations, I asked myself, supposing Southeast Asia has gone like the Gulf, we would be like Bahrain. Bahrain was becoming the international banking centre of the Gulf, because they are the most cosmopolitan.

Now, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) tells me that all money has been telegraphed outside Bahrain. Why risk it? In fact, out of all the Gulf countries, Iranians went into Kuwait and may have got away with $10 billion of un-transferred assets. And according to one report, the Palestinians working inside these Kuwaiti banks immediately help the Iranians to transfer, the Iraqis to transfer these assets. I don't know, maybe it's a libel, a slander defamation, because [that is] what the press tells me. So all the Gulf countries reading that immediately transfer all the assets out. So if Southeast Asia were like the Gulf, our banking centre comes to an end. That's a huge segment of our GDP.

I was speaking to Lim Chin Beng. I said, ‘What's happening to SIA? Are your chaps still in Bahrain?’ He said, ‘Yes, we land there twice a week’. He said, ‘But of course you know we are watching the situation very closely’. I said, ‘What does that mean?’ I said. ‘Well, they're booking out’, he said. Everybody has made a booking with several airlines. So I said, ‘What happens then?’ ‘No shows,’ he said, ‘well, we then double book’. But now, the planes are not landing there. They've decided they are getting riskier and riskier. So less and less airlines are flying.

So let's suppose we are Bahrain, Changi Airport suddenly finds flights cancelled. So we go back to security. Without security, without an international order which means somebody maintaining the peace, the world cannot progress. It may be towards the next century, some limited form of international government, limited international policing is necessary, and I hope it comes about through the UN and the Security Council.

But for the time being as is seen in the Gulf, United States have to take the role, right? If they had flinched and say God, chaps got chemical weapons, one million men. He's got missiles, causalities, body counts, sacks. And they think of Vietnam and they flinched. I think we are in a very different world. But they didn't flinch. They got the UN together. The Arab league got together. Arab Nations and Muslim Nations are in Saudi. This must be resolved in a way that upholds international and order, or you will have international outlaws taking over.

It's very significant. Who responded? The British. True, they don't have the resources. But they took the political decision straightaway. Two squadrons of Jaguars.

You see the result of institutionalised memory. They know the Gulf. They know how volatile it is. They were in charge of the Gulf since the last century. They pulled out of Kuwait in 1961. So they know the place very well. It's also a culture lag. Although they do not have the resources, the instincts to do the right are there. They went and said, ‘Right, I go with you’.

A tremendous help to the Americans. Otherwise, Saddam Hussein will say, it's just Americans versus us. Now it's the UN and in Saudi Arabia, the British, the French, Dutch, many fleets there, even the Soviets. And ground forces, five Muslim countries.

The question is, how long can it last? Every day there it's $90 million over and above what it costs just to be there. And it's a country running a big deficit, with very big problems over savings and loans, S&L and all kinds of difficulties. But it's undertaken to do a world job.

Pax Britannica lasted over 120 years. The British navy, of course, in the days of the steamships and the sailing ship. So technological change slower, they maintained the freedom of the seas, international trade, for over 120 years until World War II. After that, the Americans took over. So the Americans have done it for 45 years.

Can they do it for another 45? I have my reservations. Not that they lack the will. The resources. Can they do it for another 20? In other words, give time for the UN or some organisation to take over.

Twenty, I asked some American leaders, including the top military men, and they said, ‘Well, possible, ten years’. They are confident, because they got the resources, they got all the capital equipment, they can carry on for another 10, maybe 15 years. But 20 years, next generation of weapons, that's big expenditure.

In other words, the future is going to be a very problematical one without some Pax UN or Pax Americana amended, hyphen Japan, hyphen EC, hyphen Soviet Union maybe, or the Russian Republic. Some such Pax must be established or you will have international lawlessness.

As the Chinese saying goes, da yu chi xiaoyu, xiao yu chi xia mi (Big fish eat small fish, small fish eat shrimps). So we say, well we become tadpoles. That is really the crux of life in Singapore.

So when I met Li Peng, Premier Li Peng, yes, he has problems, enormous problems: 1,100 million of them. But there can be configuration in the Gulf, it's not going to affect the standard of living of China. They just carry on. They grow their own rice, they have their own oil, maybe investments will slow down, markets may be more difficult in America.

But for us, an immediate lowering of all economic activity because we are geared in. Their external trade, oh miserable, small, 6, 7% of their GDP. Ours is 320% of our GDP. So, you see, our vested interest, and indeed the vested interest of all the countries in the world with links with other nations. Trade investments, we require a peaceful, stable environment.

Who will play policeman and for how long? I cannot answer that question. I know it's not going to come in my watch. As far as I know, I'm leaving my watch with Singapore in a relatively stable international situation. If it is going to go wrong, it will not be Goh Chok Tong's fault. It will just be because the international situation has changed. And this is a fact which they recognise and I am hoping Singaporeans will recognise.

So you may well have, as Singaporeans, [been] faced with certain developments which the government may find difficult to explain publicly, to take more measures to make sure that on our own we still can do something for ourselves. It is in the nature of our geography, our demography and the strategic situation we are in, not our choice.

Given a choice, we wanted to be part of a larger whole, called Malaysia. It was not to be. This is what we have, we make it work. And I think if we got that will, we will make it work.

Those who are faint-hearted, well, there is the exit for you. It will always be an open country—you can move in, you can move out. There is no other way in which we can live.

What made the difference in Singapore was that the group of men in 1963, '64, '65 when we were in Malaysia. We decided that we are going to live only one life, we must die. If we have to die, we will die for a cause worthy of our lives. That made Singapore possible. We couldn't be placated and settle for less. To settle personally for a way for yourself was easy and generous exits, golden parachutes, golden handshakes were in abundance. But that broke a trust we had. That made Singapore possible.

I believe we've got a group of men similarly determined. I am not sure whether in a crisis they got the same tempered steel. But I think quite a few will measure up.

The question is to get more. And each generation, each election, you must find 10, 15, 20 good candidates and amongst them, 2, 3 potential good ministers. You need a population that understands that. Then it will work. 

If you believe you are going to get good government whatever you do, then you are going to whisk it all away. You take chances. You vote in jokers, cranks, weak men, worse charlatans, plausible men with some gift of the gab. You run a very serious risk of losing everything you have.

So the final message I give to Singaporeans is: Your future really depends on what you make of it. The government can give you that framework, can give expression to the will of a people. But the people must have that will. If you don't have it, there's nothing a government can do.

You take, I always think of Sihanouk when I think of a people. Even in the wilderness all he had was a handful of men. So who has he got on the border—his son Prince Ranariddh and a few others. Way back in Cambodia before all this unhappiness took place in 1970 and the coup, a smattering of not very good performers. One of them Son Sann, one of the better men.

No people can afford not to have strong men at the top, especially young countries, vulnerable countries, You keep your strong men in your big corporations. Let's say your banks, or TAS or SIA. Can they survive if the country is shaken? You need Singapore first. Then on that you can mount all your other operations.
